supreme court of india
government of maharashtra, (water ... vs m/s borse brothers engineers and ... on 19 march, 2021
equivalent citations: aironline 2021 sc 152
author: r.f. nariman
bench: hrishikesh roy, b.r. gavai, r. f. nariman
reportable

in the supreme court of india

civil appellate jurisdiction

civil appeal no. 995 of 2021
 B-CITATION (@ slp (civil) I-CITATION  no.665 of 2021)



government of maharashtra
 B-CITATION (water resources department) I-CITATION 
represented by executive engineer                  … B-APPELLANT appellant I-APPELLANT 

versus

m/s borse brothers engineers &
contractors pvt. ltd.                         … B-RESPONDENT respondent I-RESPONDENT 


with

civil appeal no. 999 of 2021
 B-CITATION (@ slp (civil) I-CITATION  no.15278 of 2020)


and

civil appeal no. 996-998 of 2021
 B-CITATION (@ slp (civil) I-CITATION  no. 4872-4874 of 2021)
diary no.18079 of 2020

judgment
r.f. nariman, j.
1. leave granted. delay condoned in slp  B-CITATION (c) I-CITATION  diary no.18079 of 2020.
2. the substantial question of law which arises in these appeals is as to whether the judgment of a division bench of this court in n.v. international v. state of assam,  B-CITATION (2020) I-CITATION  2 scc 109 [“n.v. international”] lays down the law correctly. this court followed its earlier judgment in union of india v. varind B-CITATION (2020) I-CITATION nstructions ltd., (2020) 2 scc 111 [“varindera constructions”] and held as follows:
“3. having heard the learned counsel for both sides, we may observe that the matter is no longer res integra. in union of india v. varindera constructions ltd. [union of india v. varindera constructions ltd.,  B-CITATION (2020) I-CITATION  2 scc 111] , this court, by its judgment and order dated 17-9-2018 [union of india v. varind B-CITATION (2020) I-CITATION B-CITATION (scc p. 112, paras 1-5) I-CITATION 0) 2 scc 111] held thus: (scc p. 112, paras 1-5) “1. heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties.
2. by a judgment dated 19-4-2018 in union of india v. varindera constructions ltd. [union of india v. varindera constructions ltd.,  B-CITATION (2018) I-CITATION  7 scc 794], this court has in near identical facts and circumstances allowed the appeal of the union of india in a proceeding arising from an arbitral award.
3. ordinarily, we would have applied the said judgment to this case as well. however, we find that the impugned division bench judgment dated 10-4-2013 [union of india v. varindera constructions ltd., 2013 scc online del 6511] has dismissed the appeal filed by the union of india on the ground of delay. the delay was found to be 142 days in filing the appeal and 103 days in refiling the appeal. one of the important points made by the division bench is that, apart from the fact that there is no sufficient cause made out in the grounds of delay, since a  B-PROVISION section 34 I-PROVISION  application has to be filed within a maximum period of 120 days including the grace period of 30 days, an appeal filed from the  B-PROVISION section 37 I-PROVISION roceeding under section 37 should be covered by the same drill.
4. given the fact that an appellate proceeding is a continuation of the original proceeding, as has been held in lachmeshwar prasad shukul v.
keshwar lal chaudhuri [lachmeshwar prasad shukul v. keshwar lal chaudhuri, 1940 scc online fc 10 : air 1941 fc 5] , and repeatedly followed by our judgments, we feel that any delay beyond 120 days in the filing of an appeal under  B-PROVISION section 37 I-PROVISION  from an application being either d B-PROVISION section 34 I-PROVISION r allowed under section 34 of the arbitration and conciliation act, 1996 should not be allowed as it will defeat the overall statutory purpose of arbitration proceedings being decided with utmost despatch.
5. in this view of the matter, since even the original appeal was filed with a delay period of 142 days, we are not inclined to entertain these special leave petitions on the facts of this particular case. the special leave petitions stand disposed of accordingly.
pending applications, if any, also stand disposed of.”
4. we may only add that what we have done in the aforesaid judgment is to add to the period of 90 days, which is provided by statute for filing of appeals under  B-PROVISION section 37 I-PROVISION  of the arbitration act, a grac B-PROVISION section 5 I-PROVISION of 30 days under section 5 of the limitation act by following lachmeshwar prasad shukul [lachmeshwar prasad shukul v. keshwar lal chaudhuri, 1940 scc online fc 10 : air 1941 fc 5] , as also having regard to the object of speedy resolution of all arbitral disputes which was uppermost in the minds of the framers of the 1996 act, and which has been strengthened from time to time by amendments made thereto. the present delay being beyond 120 days is not liable, therefore, to be condoned.”
3. in two of the three appeals before us, i.e., civil appeal arising out of slp  B-CITATION (c) I-CITATION  no. 665 of 2021 and civil ap B-CITATION (c) I-CITATION l arising out of slp (c) diary no.18079 of 2020, the high courts of bombay and delhi vide judgments dated 17.12.2020 and 15.10.2019 respectively, dismissed the appeals filed by the government of maharashtra and by the union of india respectively, refusing to condone the delay in the filing of the appeal under  B-PROVISION section 37 I-PROVISION  of the arbitration and conciliation act, 1996 [“arbitration act”] beyond 120 days B-CITATION (c) I-CITATION o far as the civil appeal arising out of slp (c) no.15278 of 2020 is concerned, the high court of madhya pra B-CITATION (supra) I-CITATION fused to follow the judgment of this court in n.v. international (supra) stating that there is a conflict between this judgment and the judgment o B-CITATION (2008) I-CITATION rger bench of this court reported in consolidated engg. enterprises v. irrigation deptt., (2008) 7 scc 169 [“consolidated engg.”]. it was, therefore, held that it was open for the high court to c B-PROVISION section 5 I-PROVISION e delay applying section 5 of the limitation act, 1963 [“limitation act”] and, as a matter of fact, a delay of what was stated to be 57 days was condoned.
4. shri sandeep sudhakar deshmukh, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the government of maharashtra  B-CITATION (water resources department) I-CITATION  [“govt of maharashtra”], the  B-APPELLANT appellant I-APPELLANT  in civil ap B-CITATION (c) I-CITATION l arising out of slp (c) no. 665 of 2021, submitted that the arbitration act in its original avatar did not include the concept or idea of expeditious resolution of disputes. at best, the arbitration act can be treated as a mechanism providing for alternate dispute resolution. this original objective i B-CITATION (amendment) I-CITATION  by the arbitration and conciliation (amendment) act, 2015 [“2015 amendment”] which provides a time limit for arbitral awards and for fast track procedure contained in sections 29a and 29b of the arbitrat B-CITATION (supra) I-CITATION . this being the case, the very foundation of n.v. international (supra) is erroneous in law. shri deshmukh also argued that  B-PROVISION section 37 I-PROVISION  of the arbitration act provides for appeals from several orders, including orders made under sections 8, 9, 16 and 17, apart from orde B-PROVISION section 34 I-PROVISION y be made under section 34 of the arbitration act. according to him, the rationale or logic contained in n.v. internation B-PROVISION section 34 I-PROVISION  would perhaps apply only to appeals from section 34 orders, but not to orders that are passed under any of the other aforesaid sections, as there is no hard and fast application of a 120-day limitation period when it comes to applications that have been filed under any of these sections.
5. shri deshmukh also argued that  B-PROVISION section 33 I-PROVISION  of the arbitration act contemplates correction and interpretation of an award, the arbitral tribunal being clothed with the power to extend time without there being any outer limit. B-PROVISION section 29 I-PROVISION tated that vide section 29 B-CITATION (2) I-CITATION  of the limitation act, the period of limitation for filing applicat B-PROVISION article 137 I-PROVISION the arbitration act would be governed by article 137 of the limitation act, providing for a much longer limitation period of three years. he further argued that articles 116 and 117 of the limitation act provide different periods of limitation, being 90 days and 30 days respectively. since these different prescribed periods lead to arbitrary results, the concept of an “appeal” would have to be read into  B-PROVISION section 37 I-PROVISION tion of the term “appli B-PROVISION article 137 I-PROVISION that the “appeal” provision under section 37 of the arbitration act is uniformly governed by article 137 of the limitation act, which  B-PROVISION section 34 I-PROVISION  to  B-PROVISION section 37 I-PROVISION limitation period of three years. he also argued that to read the period of limitation contempl B-PROVISION section 37 B-CITATION (3) I-CITATION PROVISION  section 34(3) for an appeal filed under section 37 of the arbitration act, would amount to judicial legislation due to the absence of any period of limitation provided in section 37. he placed reliance on a larg B-PROVISION section 29 I-PROVISION f judgments citing cases where the limitation act had been held to be applicable to arbitration proceedings and others i B-PROVISION article 137 I-PROVISION had not so been held. he also B-CITATION (2) I-CITATION ted a large number of judgments on section 29(2) of the limitation act, relating to the meaning of “express exclusion” under the said section. he then cited judgments on the applicability of article 137 of the limitation act and a judgment which eschews judicial legislation.
6. ms. aishwarya bhati, learned additional solicitor general appearing on behalf of the union of india, the  B-APPELLANT appellant I-APPELLANT  in the civil appeal arising out of slp  B-CITATION (c) I-CITATION  diary no. 18079 of 2020, read in detail the provisions of the commercial courts act, 2015 [“commercial courts act”] and referred to the two law commission reports which led to its enactment, namely the 188th law commission report and the 253rd law commission report. she then referred to this court’s judgments in kandla expor B-CITATION (2018) I-CITATION n. v. oci corpn., (2018) 14 scc 715 [“kan B-CITATION (2020) I-CITATION port corpn”] and bgs sgs soma jv v. nhpc, (2020) 4 scc 234, dealing with the interplay between  B-PROVISION section 13 I-PROVISION  of the  B-PROVISION section 37 I-PROVISION  courts act and section 37 of the arbitration act. she argued t B-PROVISION section 13 I-PROVISION tation B-CITATION (1a) I-CITATION iod of 60  B-PROVISION section 14 I-PROVISION aid down by section 13(1a) of the commercial courts act, and though section 14 thereof commands that an expeditious disposal of appeals take place within a period of six months B-PROVISION section 5 I-PROVISION  date of filing such appeal, neither of the two provisions bound appella B-PROVISION section 12 I-PROVISION not to apply section 5 of the limitation act to relax the period of limitation in deserving cases. she also B-PROVISION section 16 I-PROVISION on section 12a of the commercial courts act, which speaks of the limitation act i B-PROVISION rule 1 I-PROVISION context of the commercial courts act. she then referred to section 16 of the commercial courts act read with the schedule, and, in  B-PROVISION section 13 I-PROVISION , the amendment made to order viii rule 1 of the code of civil procedure, 1908 [“cpc”] which closes the right of defence after a certain period of limitation is over, which is to be contraste B-PROVISION section 5 I-PROVISION ction 13 of the commercial courts act, which contains no such provision. she then referred to judgments under different statutes B-PROVISION section 29 I-PROVISION he insolvency and bankruptcy code, 2016 [“ibc”] and the electricity act, 2003 in which section 5 of the limitation act becomes inapplicable by virtue of either the  B-CITATION (2) I-CITATION eme of the statute in question or by virtue of an “express exclusion” spoken of in section 29(2) of the limitation act.
7. shri amalpushp shroti, learned counsel appearing for the  B-RESPONDENT respondents I-RESPONDENT  in the civil appeal arising out of slp  B-CITATION (c) I-CITATION  no. 15278 of 2020, broadly supported the arguments of shri deshmukh and ms. bhati, while citing certain other judgments to buttress the same submissions.
8. shri vinay navare, learned senior advocate appearing for m/s borse brothers engineers and contractors pvt. ltd [“borse bros.”], the  B-RESPONDENT respondent I-RESPONDENT  in the civil appeal arising out of slp  B-CITATION (c) I-CITATION  no. 665 of 2021, was at pains to point out the conduct of the govt of maharashtra and added that if a period of 60 days is to be reckoned under the commercial courts act, the appeal filed by the govt of maharashtra would be delayed by a period of 131 days for which there is no explanation worthy of the name. he relied heavily on the impugned judgment of the high court of bombay which had also stated that though the certified copy of the judgment was applied for and was ready by 27.05.2019, the govt of maharashtra wrongly mentioned that it received such copy only on 24.07.2019, as a result of which the govt of maharashtra had not appeared before the high court with clean hands.
9. further, shri navare sought to answer shri deshmukh’s submission that the rationale of n.v. international  B-CITATION (supra) I-CITATION  can and should apply to an appeal filed against a  B-PROVISION section 34 I-PROVISION  order, as several different appeal provisions were all bunched together in one section and could have been the subject matter of different appellate provisions contained in the very original proceeding that was sought to be appealed against. he, therefore, argued that the scheme contained in the arbitration act B-PROVISION section 8 I-PROVISION  as appeals from section 8  B-PROVISION section 8 I-PROVISION ons are concerned, is that it is only if a section 8 application is refused t B-PROVISION section 34 I-PROVISION eal lies and not otherwise, c B-PROVISION section 34 I-PROVISION  it with an appeal against a section 34 order, which lies whether or not the court allows the section 34 application B-PROVISION section 8 I-PROVISION according to the learned senior advocate, each appellate provision would have its own rationale, appeals in the cases  B-PROVISION section 34 I-PROVISION  8, 9, 16 and 17 of the arbitration act allowing for sufficient cause to be shown be B-PROVISION section 34 I-PROVISION eriod of 30 days, as opposed to appeals filed under section 34, which ought to allow for sufficient cause being shown upto a period of 30 days, or else the whole object of section 34 would be destroyed. he referred to the statement of objects and reasons of the arbitration act and judgments to show that shri deshmukh’s submission that the arbitration act provided only alternate dispute resolution and not speedy disposal was wholly incorrect. he also pointed out that specific timelines are contained in several sections of the arbitratio B-CITA B-CITA B-CITAT B-C B-CITATION (5) I B-C B-CITATIO B-CITATION (3) I-CITATION 5) I-CITATION TION (3) I-CITATION TATION TION (2) I-CITATION  (13) I-CITATION  (4) I-CITATION N (2) I-CITATION ct such as sections 9(2), 11(4), 11(13), 13(2)-(5), 29a, 29b, 33(3)-(5) and 34(3), to indicate that the object of speedy disposal was at the heart of the arbitration act.
10. shri navare then relied upon the commercial courts act and in particular, on sections 13 B-CITATION (1a) I-CITATION  and 14, to show that the whole object of speedy disposal of appeals contained in the commercial courts act would be given a go-bye if long periods of delay beyond 30 days are to be condoned, since the appeal itself has to be decided within a period of six months. he also cited a number of judgments and supported the judgment of this cour B-CITATION (supra) I-CITATION v. international (supra) by arguing that a judge is not helpless when faced with a provision which, when literally read, would result in arbitrary and unjust orders being passed. he also referred to judgments where a casus omissus could be supplie B-CITATION (supra) I-CITATION h is what was done in n.v. international (supra).
11. shri manoj chouhan, learned counsel appearing on behalf of m/s swastik wires, the  B-APPELLANT appellant I-APPELLANT  in civil appeal arising out of slp  B-CITATION (c) I-CITATION  no.15278 of 2020, supported the impugned judgment dated 27.01.2020 of the high court of madhya pradesh and argued that this court’s judgmen B-CITATION (supra) I-CITATION nsolidated engg. (supra), being a judgment of three learned judges, would prevail over t B-CITATION (supra) I-CITATION ment of this court in n.v. international (supra), which is only delivered by two learned judges and, therefore, delay can be condoned. he also added that once  B-PROVISION section 5 I-PROVISION  of the limitation act applies, the court cannot impose any limits on the expression “sufficient cause” and even if there are long delays and sufficient cause is made out, such delays can be condoned. further, he argued  B-PROVISION article 142 I-PROVISION ourt could use article 142 of the constitution, which is a veritable brahmāstra and panacea for all ills, to do justice in individual cases.
12. dr. amit george, learned counsel appearing for m/s associated construction co., the  B-RESPONDENT respondent I-RESPONDENT  in the civil appeal arising out of slp  B-CITATION (c) I-CITATION  diary no. 18079 of 2020, argued that  B-PROVISION section 13 I-PROVISION  of the commercial courts act, having regard to the object of speedy disposal sought to be achieved, ex B-PROVISION section 5 I-PROVISION e application of section 5 of the limitation act altogether. for this purpose, he relied heavily upon the judgment of this court B-CITATION (supra) I-CITATION dla export corpn (supra) and the judgmen B-CITATION (p B-PROVISION section 35 I-PROVISION 009) I-CITATION india (p B-PROVISION secti B-CITATION (1) I-CITATION 35 I-PROVISION 009) 5 scc 791 [“hongo”] which dealt with section 35-h(1) of the central excise act, 1944  B-PROVISION secti B-CITATION (2) I-CITATION 29 I-PROVISION excise act”]. he also relied upon other judgments which interpreted section 29(2) of the limitation act to  B-PROVISION section 5 I-PROVISION t the scheme of a particular statute may make it clear that there is an “express exclusion” of section 5 of the limitation  B-CITATION (supra) I-CITATION ich is the case under the commercial courts act. he then relied strongly upon the judgment in n.v. international (supra) by sup B-PROVISION section 3 B-CITATION (3) I-CITATION -PROVISION s logic and citing judgments which would show that other sections of the limitation act were excluded in the context of section 34(3) of the arbitration act – such as sections 4 and 17 of the limitation act. in any case, he argued that on facts sufficient cause had not been made out, and that the judgment of the high court of delhi dated 15.10.2019 ought to be set aside on this ground also.
13. the arguments that have been made in these appeals and the case law cited have gone way beyond the narrow question which arises before us. however, in dealing with these arguments, it is necessary to first set out the relevant statutory provisions contained in the three statutes that have been strongly relied upon by either side in these appeals.
14. first and foremost, the arbitration act has, in its statement of objects and reasons, the following:
“4. the main objectives of the bill are as under:-
xxx xxx xxx
 B-CITATION (ii) I-CITATION  to make provision for an arbitral procedure which is fair, efficient and capable of meeting the needs of the specific arbitration;
xxx xxx xxx
 B-CITATION (v) I-CITATION  to minimise the supervisory role of courts in the arbitral process”
15. as has correctly been pointed out by shri navare, the requirement of an arbitral procedure which is efficient and the minimising of the supervisory role of courts in arbitral process would certainly show that one of the main objectives of the arbitration act is the speedy disposal of disputes through the arbitral process.  B-PROVISION section 5 I-PROVISION  of the arbitration act is important and states :
“5. extent of judicial intervention.—notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, in matters governed by this part, no judicial authority shall intervene except where so provided in this part.”
16. the other relevant provisions of the arbitration act provide as follows:
“8. power to refer parties to arbitration where there is an arbitration agreement.—  B-CITATION (1) I-CITATION  a judicial authority, before which an action is brought in a matter which is the subject of an arbitration agreement shall, if a party to the arbitration agreement or any person claiming through or under him, so applies not later than the date of submitting his first statement on the substance of the dispute, then, notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of the supreme court or any court, refer the parties to arbitration unless it finds that prima facie no valid arbitration agreement exists.
 B-CITATION (2) I-CITATION  the application ref B-CITATION (1) I-CITATION ed to in sub-section (1) shall not be entertained unless it is accompanied by the original arbitration agreement or a duly certified copy thereof: 2 [provided that where the original arbitration agreement or a certified copy thereof is not available with the party applying B-CITATION (1) I-CITATION r reference to arbitration under sub-section (1), and the said agreement or certified copy is retained by the other party to that agreement, then, the party so applying shall file such application along with a copy of the arbitration agreement and a petition praying the court to call upon the other party to produce the original arbitration agreement or its duly certified copy before that court.
 B-CITATION (3) I-CITATION  notwithstanding that an application has been B-CITATION (1) I-CITATION de under sub-section (1) and that the issue is pending before the judicial authority, an arbitration may be commenced or continued and an arbitral award made.” “9. B-CITATION (2) I-CITATION terim measures, etc., by court.— xxx xxx xxx (2) where, before the commencement of the arbitral proceedings, a court  B-CITATION (1) I-CITATION ses an order for any interim measure of protection under sub-section (1), the arbitral proceedings shall be commenced within a period of ninety days from the date of such order or with B-CITATION (4) I-CITATION such further time as  B-CITATION (3) I-CITATION  court may determine.” “11. appointment of arbitrators.— xxx xxx xxx (4) if the appointment procedure in sub-section (3) applies and—
 B-CITATION (a) I-CITATION  a party fails to appoint an arbitrator within thirty days from the receipt of a request to do so from the other party; or
 B-CITATION (b) I-CITATION  the two appointed arbitrators fail to agree on the third arbitrator within thirty days from the date of their appointment, the appointment shall be made, upon request of a party, by the supreme court or, as the case may be, the high court or any person or institution designated by such court;
xxx xxx xxx  B-CITATION (13) I-CITATION  an application made under this section for appointment of an arbitrator or arbitrators shall be disposed of by the supreme court or the high court or the person or institution designated by such court, as the case maybe, as expeditiously as possible and an endeavour shall be made to dispose of the matter within a period of sixty days from the date of service of notice on the opposite party” “13 B-CITATION (1) I-CITATION  B-CITATION (4) I-CITATION lenge procedure.— (1) subject to sub-section (4), the  B-CITATION (2) I-CITATION ties are free to agree on  B-CITATION (1) I-CITATION rocedure for challenging an arbitrator. (2) failing any agreement referred to in sub-section (1), a party who intends to challenge an arbitrator shall, within fifteen days after becoming aw B-CITATION (3) I-CITATION  of the constitution of the arbitral tribunal or after becoming aware of any circumstances referred to in sub-section(3) of  B-PROVISION section 12 I-PROVISION , send a written statement of the reasons for the challenge to the arbitral tribunal.
 B-CITATION (3) I-CITATION  unless the arbitrator chall B-CITATION (2) I-CITATION ed under sub-section (2) withdraws from his office or the other party agrees to the challenge, the arbitral tribunal shall decide on the challenge.
 B-CITATION (4) I-CITATION  if a challenge under any procedure agreed upon by the parties or under the pro B-CITATION (2) I-CITATION ure under subsection (2) is not successful, the arbitral tribunal shall continue the arbitral proceedings and make an arbitral award.
 B-CITATION (5) I-CITATION  where an arbitral award is B-CITATION (4) I-CITATION de under sub-section (4), the party challenging the arbitrator may make an application for setting aside such an arbitral award in accordance with  B-PROVISION section 34 I-PROVISION .
 B-CITATION (6) I-CITATION  where an arbitral award is set aside on an application B-CITATION (5) I-CITATION de under sub-section (5), the court may decide as to whether the arbitrator who is challenged is entitled to any fees.” “16. competence of arbitral tri B-CITATION (2) I-CITATION al to rule on its jurisdiction.— xxx xxx xxx (2) a plea that the arbitral tribunal does not have jurisdiction shall be raised not later than the submission of the statement of defence; however, a party shall not be precluded from raising such a plea merely because that he has appointed, or participated in th B-CITATION (1) I-CITATION ppointment of, an arbitrator.” “29a. time limit for arbitral award.— (1)the award in matters other than international commercial arbitration shall be made by the arbitral tribu B-CITATION (4) I-CITATION  within a period of twelve months from the date of completion of pleadings under sub-section (4) of  B-PROVISION section 23 I-PROVISION :
provided that the award in the matter of international commercial arbitration may be made as expeditiously as possible and endeavor may be made to dispose of the matter within a period of twelve months from the date of completion of pleadings under sub-section  B-CITATION (4) I-CITATION  of section
23.
 B-CITATION (2) I-CITATION  if the award is made within a period of six months from the date the arbitral tribunal enters upon the reference, the arbitral tribunal shall be entitled to receive such amount of additional fees as the parties may agree.
 B-CITATION (3) I-CITATION  the parties may, by consent, extend the period s B-CITATION (1) I-CITATION ified in sub-section (1) for making award for a further period not exceeding six months.
 B-CITATION (4) I-CITATION  if the award is not made within the period s B-CITATION (1) I-CITATION ified in sub-section (1) or t B-CITATION (3) I-CITATION extende B-CITATION (s) I-CITATION eriod specified under sub- section (3), the mandate of the arbitrator(s) shall terminate unless the court has, either prior to or after the expiry of the period so specified, extended the period:
provided that while extending the period under this sub- section, if the court finds that the proceedings have been delayed for the reasons attributable to the arbitral tribunal, then, it may order reduction of fees of arbitrator B-CITATION (s) I-CITATION  by not exceeding five per cent. for each month of such delay.
provided further that where an application under sub- section  B-CITATION (5) I-CITATION  is pending, the mandate of the arbitrator shall continue till the disposal of the said application:
provided also that the arbitrator shall be given an opportunity of being heard before the fees is reduced.
 B-CITATION (5) I-CITATION  the extension of period ref B-CITATION (4) I-CITATION ed to in sub-section (4) may be on the application of any of the parties and may be granted only for sufficient cause and on such terms and conditions as may be imposed by the court.
 B-CITATION (6) I-CITATION  while extending the period ref B-CITATION (4) I-CITATION ed to in sub-section (4), it shall be open to the court to substitute one or all of the arbitrators and if one or all of the arbitrators are substituted, the arbitral proceedings shall continue from the stage already reached and on the basis of the evidence an B-CITATION (s) I-CITATION aterial already on record, and the arbitrator(s)appointed under this section shall be deemed to have received the said evidence and material.
 B-CITATION (7) I-CITATION  in B-CITATION (s) I-CITATION e event of arbitrator(s) being appointed under this section, the arbitral tribunal thus reconstituted shall be deemed to be in continuation of the previously appointed arbitral tribunal.
 B-CITATION (8) I-CITATION  it shall be open to the court to impose actual or exemplary costs upon any of the parties under this section.
 B-CITATION (9) I-CITATION  an application  B-CITATION (5) I-CITATION ed under sub-section (5) shall be disposed of by the court as expeditiously as possible and endeavour shall be made to dispose of the matter within a period of sixty days from the date of service of notice on t B-CITATION (1) I-CITATION opposite party” “29b. fast track procedure.— (1) notwithstanding anything contained in this act, the parties to an arbitration agreement, may, at any stage either before or at the time of appointment of the arbitral tribunal, agree in writing to have  B-CITATION (3) I-CITATION ir dispute resolved by fast track procedure specified in sub-section (3).
 B-CITATION (2) I-CITATION  the parties to the arbitration agreement, while agreeing for resolution of dispute by fast track procedure, may agree that the arbitral tribunal shall consist of a sole arbitrator who shall be chosen by the parties.
 B-CITATION (3) I-CITATION  the arbitral tribunal shall follow the following procedure while conducting arbitration procee B-CITATION (1) I-CITATION gs under sub-section (1):—
 B-CITATION (a) I-CITATION  the arbitral tribunal shall decide the dispute on the basis of written pleadings, documents and submissions filed by the parties without any oral hearing;
 B-CITATION (b) I-CITATION  the arbitral tribunal shall have power to call for any further information or clarification from the parties in addition to the pleadings and documents filed by them;
 B-CITATION (c) I-CITATION  an oral hearing may be held only, if, all the parties make a request or if the arbitral tribunal considers it necessary to have oral hearing for clarifying certain issues;
 B-CITATION (d) I-CITATION  the arbitral tribunal may dispense with any technical formalities, if an oral hearing is held, and adopt such procedure as deemed appropriate for expeditious disposal of the case.
 B-CITATION (4) I-CITATION  the award under this section shall be made within a period of six months from the date the arbitral tribunal enters upon the reference.
 B-CITATION (5) I-CITATION  if the award is not made within the period s B-CITATION (4) I-CITATION ified in B-CITA B-CITATION (9) I-CITATION N (3) I-CITATION b-section (4), the provisions of subsections (3) to (9) of  B-PROVISION section 29 I-PROVISION a shall apply to the proceedings.
 B-CITATION (6) I-CITATION  the fees payable to the arbitrator and the manner of payment of the fees shall be such as may be agreed between the arbitrator and the parties.” “33. correction and interpretation of award; additio B-CITATION (3) I-CITATION  award.— xxx xxx xxx (3) the arbitral tribunal may corr B-CITATION (a) I-C B-CITATION (1) I-CITATION TION  any error of the type referred to in clause (a) of sub-section (1), on its own initiative, within thirty days from the date of the arbitral award.
 B-CITATION (4) I-CITATION  unless otherwise agreed by the parties, a party with notice to the other party, may request, within thirty days from the receipt of the arbitral award, the arbitral tribunal to make an additional arbitral award as to claims presented in the arbitral proceedings but omitted from the arbitral award.
 B-CITATION (5) I-CITATION  if the arbitral tribunal considers the request B-CITATION (4) I-CITATION de under sub-section (4) to be justified, it shall make the additional arbitral award within sixty days from the receipt of such request.” “34. application B-CITATION (3) I-CITATION r setting aside arbitral award.— xxx xxx xxx (3) an application for setting aside may not be made after three months have elapsed from the date on which the party making that application had received the arbitral award or, if a request had been made under  B-PROVISION section 33 I-PROVISION , from the date on which that request had been disposed of by the arbitral tribunal:
provided that if the court is satisfied that the applicant was prevented by sufficient cause from making the application within the said period of three months it may entertain the application within a further period of thirty days, but not thereafter.” “37. appealable orders.—  B-CITATION (1) I-CITATION  notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, an appeal shall lie fr B-CITATION (and from no others) I-CITATION ers (and from no others) to the court authorised by law to hear appeals from original decrees of the court passing the order, namely:—
 B-CITATION (a) I-CITATION  refusing to refer the parties to arbitration under  B-PROVISION section 8 I-PROVISION ;
 B-CITATION (b) I-CITATION  granting or refusing to grant any measure under  B-PROVISION section 9 I-PROVISION ;
 B-CITATION (c) I-CITATION  setting aside or refusing to set aside an arbitral award under  B-PROVISION section 34 I-PROVISION .
 B-CITATION (2) I-CITATION  appeal shall also lie to a court from an order of the arbitral tribunal—
 B-CITATION (a) I-CITATION  accepting the plea ref B-CITATION (2) I-C B-CITATION (3) I-CITATION TION ed to in sub-section (2) or sub-section (3) of  B-PROVISION section 16 I-PROVISION ; or
 B-CITATION (b) I-CITATION  granting or refusing to grant an interim measure under  B-PROVISION section 17 I-PROVISION .
 B-CITATION (3) I-CITATION  no second appeal shall lie from an order passed in appeal under this section, but nothing in this section shall affect or takeaway any right to appeal to the supreme cou B-CITATION (1) I-CITATION ”  B-CITATION (36 of 1963) I-CITATION ions.— (1) the limitation act, 1963 (36 of 1963), shall apply to arbitrations as it applies to proceedings in court.
 B-CITATION (2) I-CITATION  for the purposes of this section and t B-CITATION (36 of 1963) I-CITATION n act, 1963 (36 of 1963),an arbitration shall be deemed to have commenced on the date referred to in  B-PROVISION section 21 I-PROVISION .
 B-CITATION (3) I-CITATION  where an arbitration agreement to submit future disputes to arbitration provides that any claim to which the agreement applies shall be barred unless some step to commence arbitral proceedings is taken within a time fixed by the agreement, and a dispute arises to which the agreement applies, the court, if it is of opinion that in the circumstances of the case undue hardship would otherwise be caused, and notwithstanding that the time so fixed has expired, may on such terms, if any, as the justice of the case may require, extend the time for such period as it thinks proper.
 B-CITATION (4) I-CITATION  where the court orders that an arbitral award be set aside, the period between the commencement of the arbitration and the date of the order of the court shall be excluded in computing the time prescribed by t B-CITATION (36 of 1963) I-CITATION n act, 1963 (36 o B-CITATION (including arbitration) I-CITATION ement of the proceedings (including arbitration) with respect to the dispute so submitted.”
17. so far as the limitation act is concerned, sections 5 and 29 B-CITATION (2) I-CITATION  read as follows:
“5. extension of prescribed period in certain cases.— any appeal or any application, other than an application under any of the provisions of order xxi of the code of civil procedure, 1908  B-CITATION (5 of 1908) I-CITATION , may be admitted after the prescribed period if the  B-APPELLANT appellant I-APPELLANT  or the applicant satisfies the court that he had sufficient cause for not preferring the appeal or making the application within such period. expla B-APPELLANT appellant I-APPELLANT he fact that the appellant or the applicant was missed by any order, practice or judgment of the high court in ascertaining or computing the prescribed period may be sufficient cause within the meaning of this section.” “29 B-CITATION (2) I-CITATION avings.— xxx xxx xxx (2) where any special or local law prescribes for any suit, appeal or application a period of limitation different from the period prescribed by the schedule, the provisions of  B-PROVISION section 3 I-PROVISION  shall apply as if such period were the period prescribed by the schedule and for the purpose of determining any period of limitation prescribed for any suit, appeal or application by any special or local la B-CITATION (inclusive) I-CITATION isions contained in sections 4 to 24 (inclusive) shall apply only in so far as, and to the extent to which, they are not expressly excluded by such special or local law.”
18. further, the relevant articles of the schedule provide as follows:
“the schedule  B-CITATION (periods of limitation) I-CITATION  xxx xxx xxx description of suit period of time from which limitation period begins to run
116. under the code of civil procedure, 1908  B-CITATION (5 of 1908) I-CITATION —
 B-CITATION (a) I-CITATION  to a high court ninety days. the date of the from any decree or decree or order.
order.
 B-CITATION (b) I-CITATION  to any other thirty days.         the date of        the
court    from    any                  decree or order.
decree or order.
117. from a decree thirty days.       the date of        the
or order of any high                  decree or order.
court to the same
court
137.     any     other three years.   when the right to
application for which                 apply accrues.
no       period      of
limitation is provided
elsewhere in this
division.
19. the commercial courts act states, in its statement of objects and reasons, the following:
“statement of objects and reasons the proposal to provide for speedy disposal of high value commercial disputes has been under consideration of the government for quite some time. the high vlaue commercial disputes involve complex facts and question of law. therefore, there is a need to provide for an independent mechanism for their early resolution. early resolution of commercial disputes shall create a positive image to the investor world about the independent and responsive indian legal system.” “6. it is proposed to introduced the commercial courts, commercial division and commercial appellate division of high courts bill, 2015 to replace the commercial courts, commercial division and commercial appellate division of high courts ordinance, 2015 which inter alia, provides for the following namely:— xxx xxx xxx
 B-CITATION (v) I-CITATION  to amend the code of civil procedure, 1908 as applicable to the commercial courts and commercial divisions which shall prevail over the existing high courts rules and other provisions of the code of civil procedure, 1908 so as to improve the efficiency and reduce delays in disposal of commercial cases.
7. the proposed bill shall accelerate economic growth, improve the international image of the indian justice delivery system, and the faith of the investor world in the legal culture of the nation.”
20.  B-PROVISION section 2 I-PROVISION  B- B-CITATION (i) I-CITATION ATION (1) I-CITATION (i) of the commercial courts act defines “specified value” as follows:
“2. definitions.— B-CITATION (1) I-CITATION  in this act, unless the context otherwise requires,–– xxx xxx xxx
 B-CITATION (i) I-CITATION  “specified value”, in relation to a commercial dispute, shall mean the value of the subject-matter in respect of a suit as determined in accordance with  B-PROVISION section 12 I-PROVISION  which shall not be less than three lakh rupees or such higher value, as may be notified by the central government.”
21. chapter ii of the commercial courts act sets up commercial courts, commercial appellate courts, commercial divisions and commercial appellate divisions. so far as arbitration is concerned,  B-PROVISION section 10 I-PROVISION  is important and states as follows:
“10. jurisdiction in respect of arbitration matters.— where the subject-matter of an arbitration is a commercial dispute of a specified value and––  B-CITATION (1) I-CITATION  if such arbitration is an international commercial arbitration, all applications or appeals arising out of such arbitration under the provisions of the arbitration and B-CITATION (26 of 1996) I-CITATION n act, 1996 (26 of 1996) that have been filed in a high court, shall be heard and disposed of by the commercial division where such commercial division has been constituted in such high court.
 B-CITATION (2) I-CITATION  if such arbitration is other than an international commercial arbitration, all applications or appeals arising out of such arbitration under the provisions of the arbitration and B-CITATION (26 of 1996) I-CITATION n act, 1996 (26 of 1996) that have been filed on the original side of the high court, shall be heard and disposed of by the commercial division where such commercial division has been constituted in such high court.
 B-CITATION (3) I-CITATION  if such arbitration is other than an international commercial arbitration, all applications or appeals arising out of such arbitration under the provisions of the arbitration and B-CITATION (26 of 1996) I-CITATION n act, 1996 (26 of 1996) that would ordinarily lie before any principal civ B-CITATION (not being a high court) I-CITATION isdiction in a district (not being a high court) shall be filed in, and heard and disposed of by the commercial court exercising territorial jurisdiction over such arbitration where such commercial court has been constituted.
22. the other relevant provisions of the commercial courts act are set out as follows:
“13. appeals from decrees of commercial courts and commercial divisions.—  B-CITATION (1) I-CITATION  any person aggrieved by the judgment or order of a commercial court below the level of a district judge may appeal to the commercial appellate court within a period of sixty days from the date of judgment or order.
 B-CITATION (1a) I-CITATION  any person aggrieved by the judgment or order of a commercial court at the level of district judge exercising original civil jurisdiction or, as the case may be, commercial division of a high court may appeal to the commercial appellate division of that high court within a period of sixty days from the date of the judgment or order:
provided that an appeal shall lie from such orders passed by a commercial division or a commercial court that are specifically enumerated under order xliii of the code of civil procedure, 1908  B-CITATION (5 of 1908) I-CITATION  as amended by this act and  B-PROVISION section 37 I-PROVISION  of the arbitration and B-CITATION (26 of 1996) I-CITATION n act, 1996 (26 of 1996).
 B-CITATION (2) I-CITATION  notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force or letters patent of a high court, no appeal shall lie from any order or decree of a commercial division or commercial court otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of this act.
14. expeditious disposal of appeals.—the commercial appellate court and the commercial appellate division shall endeavour to dispose of appeals filed before it within a period of six months from the date of filing of such appeal.” “16. amendments to the code of civil procedure, 1908 in its application to commercial disputes.—  B-CITATION (1) I-CITATION  the provisions of the code o B-CITATION (5 of 1908) I-CITATION cedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) shall, in their application to any suit in respect of a commercial dispute of a specified value, stand amended in the manner as specified in the schedule.
 B-CITATION (2) I-CITATION  the commercial division and commercial court shall follow the provisions of the code o B-CITATION (5 of 1908) I-CITATION cedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), as amended by this act, in the trial of a suit in respec B-CITATION (3) I-CITATION f a commercial dispute of a specified value. (3) where any provision of any rule of the jurisdic B-CITATION (5 of 1908) I-CITATION  court or any amendment to the code of civil procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908),  B-CITATION (5 of 1908) I-CITATION e government is in conflict with the provisions of the code of civil procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), as amended by this act, the provisions of the code of civil procedure as amended by this act shall prevail.” “21. act to have overriding effect.—save as otherwise provided, the provisions of this act shall have effect, notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force or in any instrument having effect by virtue of any law for the time being in force other than this act.” “schedule
4. amendment of first schedule.—in the first schedule to the code,–– xxx xxx xxx  B-CITATION (d) I-CIT B-CITATION (i) I-CITATION ON  in order viii,–– (i) in  B-PROVISION rule 1 I-PROVISION , for the proviso, the following proviso shall be substituted, namely:–– “provided that where the  B-RESPONDENT defendant I-RESPONDENT  fails to file the written statement within the said period of thirty days, he shall be allowed to file the written statement on such other day, as may be specified by the court, for reasons to be recorded in writing and on payment of such costs as the court deems fit, but which shall not be later than one hundred twenty days from the date of service of summons and on expiry of one hundred twenty days from the date B-RESPONDENT defendant I-RESPONDENT ce of summons, the defendant shall forfeit the right to file the written statement and the court shall not allow the written statement to be taken on record.”;”
23.  B-PROVISION section 37 I-PROVISION  of the arbitr B-PROVISION section 43 I-PROVISION  when read with section 43 thereof, makes it clear that the provisions of the limita B-PROVISION section 37 I-PROVISION ill apply to appeals that are filed under section 37. this takes us to articles 116 and 117 of the limitation act, which provide for a limitation period of 90 days and 30 days, depending upon whether the appeal is from any other court to a hi B-PROVISION section 5 I-PROVISION or an intra-high court appeal. there can be no doubt B-PROVISION section 43 I-PROVISION r that section  B-PROVISION section 29 I-PROVISION imitation act will apply to the aforesaid appeals, both by virtue of section 43 of the arbitration act and by virtue of section 29 B-CITATION (2) I-CITATION  of the limitation act. this aspect of the matter has been set out in the concurring judgment of raveendran, j B-CITATION (supra) I-CITATION nsolidated engg. (supra), as follows:
“40. let me next refer to the relevant provisions of the limitation act.  B-PROVISION section 3 I-PROVISION  of the limitation act provides for the bar of limitation. it provides that subject to the provisions contained in sections 4 to 24  B-CITATION (inclusive) I-CITATION , every suit instituted, appeal preferred, and application made after the prescribed period shall be dismissed although limitation has not been set up as a defence. “prescribed period” means that period of limitation computed in accordance with the provisions of the limitation act. “period of limitation” means the period of limitation prescribed for any suit, appeal or application by the schedule to B-PROVISION section 2 I-PROVIS B-PROVISION section 29 I-PROVIS B-CITATION (j) I-CITATION   act [vide section 2(j) of the said act]. section 29 of the B-CITATION (2) I-CITATION mitation act relates to savings. sub-section (2) thereof which is relevant is extracted below:
“29.  B-CITATION (2) I-CITATION  where any special or local law prescribes for any suit, appeal or application a period of limitation different from the period prescribed by the schedule, the provisions of  B-PROVISION section 3 I-PROVISION  shall apply as if such period were the period prescribed by the schedule and for the purpose of determining any period of limitation prescribed for any suit, appeal or application by any special or local law, the provisions contained in sections 4 to
24  B-CITATION (inclusive) I-CITATION  shall apply only insofar as, and to the extent to which, they are not expressly excluded by such special or local law.”
41.  B-PROVISION article 116 I-PROVISION  of the schedule prescribes the period of limitation for appeals to the high court  B-CITATION (90 days) I-CITATION  and app B-CITATION (30 days) I-CITATION ny other court (30 days) under the code of civil procedure, 1908. it is now well settled that the words “appeals under the code of civil proc B-PROVISION article 116 I-PROVISION ” occurring in article 116 refer not only to appeals preferred under the code of civil procedure, 1908, but also to appeals, where the procedure for filing of such appeals and powers of the court for dealing with such appea B-CITATION (see decision of the constitution bench in vidyachar B-PROVISION article 119 I-PROVISION . khubchand baghel [air 1964 sc 1099] .) B-CITATION (b) I-CITATION CITATION OVISION . khubchand baghel [air 1964 sc 1099]  B-CITATION (under the arbitration act, 1940) I-CITATION  prescribes the period of limitation for filing an application (under the arbitration act, 1940), for setting aside an award, as thirty days from the date of service of notice of filing of the award.
42. the ac act is no doubt, a special law, consolidating and amending the law relating to arbitration and matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. the ac act does not prescribe the period of limitation, for various proceedings under that act, except where it intends to prescribe a period different from what is prescribed in the limitation act. on the other hand,  B-PROVISION section 43 I-PROVISION  makes the provisions of the limitation act, 1963 applicable to proceedings—both in court and in arbitration—under the ac act. there is also no express exclusion of application of any provision of the limitation act to proceedings under the ac act, but there are some specific departures from the general provisions of the limitation act, as fo B-PROVISION section 34 I-PROVISION  the prov B-PROVISION section 43 I-PROVISION tion 34 B-CITATION (3) I-CIT B-CITA B-CITATION (4) I-CITATION N (2) I-CITATION ON  and sub-sections (2) to (4) of section 43 of the ac act.
43. where the schedule to the limitation act prescribes a period of limitation for appeals or applications to any court, and the special or local law provides for filing of appeals and applications to the court, but does not prescribe any period of limitation in regard to such appeals or applications, the period of limitation prescribed in the schedule to the limitation act will apply to such appeals or applications and consequently, the provisions of sections 4 to 24 will also apply. where the special or local law prescribes for any appeal or application, a period of limitation different from the period prescribed by the schedule to the limitation act, then the provisions of  B-PROVISION section 29 I-PROVISION  B-CITATION (2) I-CITATION  will be attracted. in that B-PROVISION section 3 I-PROVISION he provisions of section 3 of the limitation act will apply, as if the period of limitation prescribed under the special law was the period prescribed by the schedule to the limitation act, and for the purpose of determining any period of limitation prescribed for the appeal or application by the special law, the provisions contained in sections 4 to 24 will apply to the extent to which they are not ex B-PROVISION section 29 I-PROVISION cluded by such special law.  B-CITATION (2) I-CITATION  object of section 29(2) is to ensure that the principles contained in sections 4 to 24 of the limitation act apply to suits, appeals and applications filed in a court under special or local laws also, even if it prescribes a period of limitation different from what is prescribed in the limitation act, except to the extent of express exclusion of the application of any or all of those provisions.”
24. when the commercial courts act is applied to the aforesaid appeals, given the definition of “specified value” and the provisions contained in sections 10 and 13 thereof, it is clear that it is only when the specified value is for a sum less than three lakh rupees that the appellate provision contained in  B-PROVISION section 37 I-PROVISION  of the arbitration act will be governed, for the purposes of limitation, by articles 116 and 117 of the limitation act. shri deshmukh’s argument that depending upon which court decides a matter, a limitation period of either 30 or 90 days is provided, which leads to arbitrary results, and that, therefore, the u B-PROVISION article 137 I-PROVISION od provided by article 137 of the limitation act should govern appeals as well, is rejected. it is settled that periods of limitation must always to some extent be arbitrary and may result in some hardship, but this is no reason as to why they should not be strictly followed. in boota mal v. union of india,  B-CITATION (1963) I-CITATION  1 scr 70, this court referred to this aspect of the case, as follows:
“ordinarily, the words of a statute have to be given their strict grammatical meaning and equitable considerations are out of place, particularly in provisions of law limiting the period of limitation for filing suits or legal proceedings. this was laid down by the privy council in two decisions in nagendranath v. suresh [air B-CITATION (1932) I-CITATION  pc 165] and general accident fire and life assurance corporation limited v. janm B-CITATION (1941) I-CITATION  abdul rahim [air (1941) pc 6] . in the first case the privy council observed that “the fixation of periods of limitation must always be to some extent arbitrary and may frequently result in hardship. but in construing such provisions equitable considerations are out of place, and the strict grammatical meaning of the words is the only safe guide”. in the latter case it was observed that “a limitation act ought to receive such a construction as the language in its plain meaning imports … great hardship may occasionally be caused by statutes of limitation in cases of poverty, distress and ignorance of rights, yet the statutory rules must be enforced according to their ordin B-CITATION (pages 74-75) I-CITATION n these and in other like cases”.” (pages 74-75)
25. shri deshmukh’s other argument that since no period of limitation has been provided in  B-PROVISION section 37 I-PROVISION  of the arbitration act, as a result of which the neat division contained in the limitation act of different matters contained in suits, appeals and applications will somehow have to be destroyed, the word “appeals” has to be read in B-PROVISION article 137 I-PROVISION tions” so that article 137 of the limitation act could apply, is also rejected.
26. even in the rare situation in which an appeal under  B-PROVISION section 37 I-PROVISION  of the arbitration act would be of a specified value less than three  B-PROVISION article 116 I-PROVISION , resulting in article 116 or 117 of the limitation act applying, the main object of the arbitration act requiring speedy resolution of disputes would be the most import B-PROVISION section 5 I-PROVISION iple to be applied when applications under section 5 of the limitation act ar B-PROVISION article 116 I-PROVISION condone delay beyond 90 days and/or 30 days depending upon whether article 116 B-CITATIO B-CITATION (b) I-CITATION a) I-CITATION  or 116(b) or 117 applies. as a matter of fact B-CITA B-CITA B-CITAT B-C B-CITATION (5) I B-C B-CITATIO B-CITATION (3) I-CITATION 5) I-CITATION TION (3) I-CITATION TATION TION (2) I-CITATION  (13) I-CITATION  (4) I-CITATION N (2) I-CITATION iven the timelines contained in sections 8, 9(2), 11(4), 11(13), 13(2)-(5), 29a, 29b, 33(3)-(5) and 34(3) of the arbitration act, and the observations made in some of this court’s judgments, the object of speedy resolution of disputes would govern appeals covered by articles 116 and 117 of the limitation act.
27. this court in union of india v. popular construction co.,  B-CITATION (2001) I-CITATION  8 scc 470, put it thus:
“14. here the history and scheme of the 1996 act support the conclusion that the time-limit prescribed under  B-PROVISION section 34 I-PROVISION  to challenge an award is absolute and un B-PROVISION section 5 I-PROVISION e by court under section 5 of the limitation act. the arbitration and conciliation bill, 1995 which preceded the 1996 act stated as one of its main objectives the need “to minimise the supervisory role of courts in the arbitral process” [ para 4 B-CITATION (v) I-CITATION  of the statement of objects and reasons of the arbitration and conciliation  B-PROVISION section 5 I-PROVISION ] . this objective has found expression in section 5 of the act which prescribes the extent of judicial intervention in no uncertain terms:
“5. extent of judicial intervention.— notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, in matters governed by this part, no judicial authority shall intervene except where so provided in this part.”
15. the “part” referred to in  B-PROVISION section 5 I-PROVISION  is part i of the 1996 act which deals wi B-PROVISION section 34 I-PROVISION c arbitrations. section 34 is contained in part i and is therefore s B-PROVISION section 5 I-PROVISION  the sweep of the prohibition contained in section 5 of the 1996 act.”
28. likewise, in state of goa v. western builders,  B-CITATION (2006) I-CITATION  6 scc 239, this court, while stating that the provisions of  B-PROVISION section 14 I-PROVISION  of the limitation act would apply to B-PROVISION section 34 I-PROVISION ons filed under section 34 of the arbitration act, held:
“25. … it is true that the arbitration and conciliation act, 1996 intended to expedite commercial issues expeditiously. it is also clear in the statement of objects and reasons that in order to recognise economic reforms the settlement of both domestic and international commercial disputes should be disposed of quickly so that the country's economic progress be expedited…”
29. the judgment in kandla export corpn  B-CITATION (supra) I-CITATION  also observed:
“27. the matter can be looked at from a slightly different angle. given the objects of both the statutes, it is clear that arbitration itself is meant to be a speedy resolution of disputes between parties. equally, enforcement of foreign awards should take place as soon as possible if india is to remain as an equal partner, commercially speaking, in the international community. in point of fact, the raison d'être for the enactment of the commercial courts act is that commercial disputes involving high amounts of money should be speedily decided. given the objects of both the enactments, if we were to provide an additional appeal, when  B-PROVISION section 50 I-PROVISION  does away with an appeal so as to speedily enforce foreign awards, we would be turning the arbitration act and the commercial courts act on their heads. admittedly, if the amount contained in a foreign award to be enforced in india were less than rs 1 crore, and a single judge of a high court were to enforce such award, no appeal would lie, in keeping with the object of speedy enforcement of foreign awards. however, if, in the same fact circumstance, a foreign award were to be for rs 1 crore or more, if the  B-APPELLANT appellants I-APPELLANT  are correct, enforcement of such award would be further delayed by  B-PROVISION section 13 I-PROVISION an appeal under section 13 B-CITATION (1) I-CITATION  of the commercial courts act.
any such interpretation would lead to absurdity, and would be directly contrary to the object sought to be achieved by the commercial courts act viz. speedy resolution of disputes of a commercial nature involving a sum of rs 1 crore and over. for this reason also, we feel that  B-PROVISION section 13 I-PROVISION  B-CITATION (1) I-CITATION  of the commercial courts act must be construed in accordance with the object sought to be achieved by the B-PROVISION section 13 I-PROVISION construction of section 13 of the commercial courts act, which would lead to further delay, instead of an expeditious enforcement of a foreign award must, therefore, be eschewed. even on applying the doctrine of harmonious construction of both statutes, it is clear that they are best harmonised by giving effect to the special statute i.e. the arbitration act, vis-à-vis the more general statute, namely, the commercial courts act, being left to operate in spheres other than arbitration.”
30. a recent judgment of this court in icomm tele ltd. v. punjab state water supply and sewerage board,  B-CITATION (2019) I-CITATION  4 scc 401, states:
25. several judgments of this court have also reiterated that the primary object of arbitration is to reach a final disposal of disputes in a speedy, effective, inexpensive and expeditious manner. thus, in centrotrade minerals & metal inc. v. hindustan copper ltd. [centrotrade minerals & metal inc. v. hindustan copper ltd.,  B-CITATION (2017) I-CITATION  2 scc 228 :
 B-CITATION ( B-CITATION (civ) I-CITATION   B-CITATION (scc p. 250, para 39) I-CITATION v) 593] , this court held: (scc p. 250, para 39) “39. in union of india v. u.p. state bridge corpn.
ltd. [union of india v. u.p. state bridge corpn. ltd.,  B-CITATION (2015) B-CITATION ( B-CITATION (civ) I-CITATION  I-CITATION ATION  2 scc 52 : (2015) 1 scc (civ) 732] this court accepted the view [ indu malhotra B-CITATION (3rd edn., thomson reuters, 2014) I-CITATION actice of arbitration and conciliation (3rd edn., thomson reuters, 2014).]  B-CITATION (scc p. 64) I-CITATION c act has four foundational pillars and then observed in para 16 of the report that: (scc p. 64) ‘16. first and paramount principle of the first pillar is ‘fair, speedy and inexpensive trial by an arbitral tribunal’. unnecessary delay or expense would frustrate the very purpose of arbitration.””
31. thus, from the scheme of the arbitration act as well as the aforesaid judgments, condonation of delay under  B-PROVISION section 5 I-PROVISION  of the limitation act has to be seen in the context of the object of speedy resolution of disputes.
32. the bulk of appeals, however, to the appellate court under  B-PROVISION section 37 I-PROVISION  of the arbitra B-PROVISION section 13 I-PROVISION are governed by section 1 B-PROVISION section 13 I-PROVISION ommercial courts act. sub-section  B-CITATION (1a) I-CITATION  of section 13 of the commercial courts act pr B-PROVISION section 13 I-PROVISION  forum for appeals as well as the limitation period to be followed, section 13 of the commercial courts act being a  B-PROVISION section 29 I-PROVISION w B-PROVISION section 13 I-PROVISION ed with the limitation act which is a general law, which follows from B-CITATION (2) I-CITATION reading of section 29(2) of the B-PR B-CITATION (1a) I-CITATION ION section 37 I-PROVISION n act. section 13(1a) of the commercial courts act lays down a period of limitation of 60 days uniformly for all appeals that are preferred under section 37 of the arbitration act. 1
33. the vexed question which faces us is whether, first and foremost, the application of  B-PROVISION section 5 I-PROVISION  of the limitation act is excluded by the scheme of the commercial courts act, as has been argued by dr. george. the first import B-PROVISION section 13 I-PROVISION to note is that section 13 B-CITATION (1a) I-CITATION  of the commercia B-PROVISION section 34 I-PROVISION ct B-PROVISION section 13 I-PROVISION contain any prov B-CITATION (3) I-CITATION on akin to  B-CITATION (1a) I-CITATION ion 34(3) of the arbitration act. section 13(1a) of the commercial courts act only provides for a limitation period of 60 days from the date of the judgment or order appealed against, without further going into whether delay beyond this period can or cannot be condoned.
34. it may also be pointed out that though the object of expeditious disposal of appeals is laid down in  B-PROVISION section 14 I-PROVISION  of the commercial co B-PROVISION section 14 I-PROVISION the language of section 14 makes it clear that the period of six months spoken of  B-PROVISION section 16 I-PROVISION ry and not mandatory. by way of contrast, section 16 of the commercial c B-PROVISION rule 1 I-PROVISION act read with the schedule thereof and the ame B-PROVISION section 37 I-PROVISION e to order viii rule 1 of the 1 as held  B-PROVISION section 13 I-PROVISION  soma jv v. nhpc,  B-CITATION (2020) I-CITATION  4 scc 234, whereas section 37 of the arbitration act provides the substantive right to appeal, section 13 of the commercial courts act provides the forum and procedu B-CITATION (see paragraph 13) I-CITATION ppeal (see paragraph 13).
cpc, would make it clear that the  B-RESPONDENT defendant I-RESPONDENT  in a suit is given 30 days to file a written statement, which period cannot be extended beyond 120 days from the date of service of the summons; and on exp B-RESPONDENT defendant I-RESPONDENT e said period, the defendant forfeits the right to file the written statement and the court cannot allow the written statement to be taken on record. this provision was enacted as a result of the judgment of this court in salem advocate bar assn.  B-CITATION (ii) I-CITAT B-CITATION (2005) I-CITATION . union of india, (2005) 6 scc 344.
35. in a recent judgment of this court namely, scg contracts  B-CITAT B-CITATION (p) I-CITATION  (india) I-CITA B-CITATIO B-CITATION (2019) I-CITATION I-CITATION N  (p) ltd. v. k.s. chamankar infrastructure (p) ltd., (2019) 12 scc 210, a division bench of this court referred to the aforesaid amendment and its hard and fast nature as follows:
“8. the commercial courts, commercial division and commercial appellate division of high courts act, 2015 came into force on 23-10-2015 bringing in their wake certain amendments to the code of civil procedure. in  B-PROVI B-PROVISION rule 1 I-PROVISION rder 5 I-PROVISION  rule 1, sub-rule  B-CITATION (1) I-CITATION , for the second proviso, the following proviso was substituted:
“provided further that where the  B-RESPONDENT defendant I-RESPONDENT  fails to file the written statement within the said period of thirty days, he shall be allowed to file the written statement on such other day, as may be specified by the court, for reasons to be recorded in writing and on payment of such costs as the court deems fit, but which shall not be later than one hundred twenty days from the date of service of summons and on expiry of one hundred and twenty days from the date B-RESPONDENT defendant I-RESPONDENT ce of summons, the defendant shall forfeit the right to file the written statement and the court shall not allow the written statement to be taken on record.” equally, in  B-PROVI B-PROVISION rule 1 I-PROVISION rder 8 I-PROVISION  rule 1, a new proviso was substituted as follows:
“provided that where the  B-RESPONDENT defendant I-RESPONDENT  fails to file the written statement within the said period of thirty days, he shall be allowed to file the written statement on such other day, as may be specified by the court, for reasons to be recorded in writing and on payment of such costs as the court deems fit, but which shall not be later than one hundred and twenty days from the date of service of summons and on expiry of one hundred and twenty days from the date B-RESPONDENT defendant I-RESPONDENT ce of summons, the defendant shall forfeit the right to file the written statement and the court shall not allow the written statement to be taken on record.” this was re-emphasised by re-inserting yet another proviso in  B-PROVI B-PROVISION rule 10 I-PROVISION der 8 I-PROVISION  rule 10 cpc, which reads as under:
“10. procedure when party fails to present written statement called for by court.—where any party from whom a written statement is required under  B-PROVISI B-PROVISION rule 9 I-PROVISION e 1 I-PROVISION  or rule 9 fails to present the same within the time permitted or fixed by the court, as the case may be, the court shall pronounce judgment against him, or make such order in relation to the suit as it thinks fit and on the pronouncement of such judgment a decree shall be drawn up:
provided further that no court shall make an order to extend the time provided under  B-PROVISION rule 1 I-PROVISION  of this order for filing of the written statement.” a perusal of these provisions would show that ordinarily a written statement is to be filed within a period of 30 days. however, grace period of a further 90 days is granted which the court may employ for reasons to be recorded in writing and payment of such costs as it deems fit to allow such written statement to come on record. what is of great importance is the fact that beyond 120 days from the date of service of summons, the  B-RESPONDENT defendant I-RESPONDENT  shall forfeit the right to file the written statement and the court shall not allow the written statement to be taken on record. this is further but B-PROVI B-PROVISION rule 10 I-PROVISION der 8 I-PROVISION  by the proviso in order 8 rule 10 also adding that the court has no further power to extend the time beyond this period of 120 days.
9. in bihar rajya bhumi vikas bank samiti [state of bihar v. bihar rajya bhumi vikas bank samiti,  B-CITATION (2018)  B-CITATION ( B-CITATION (civ) I-CITATION  I-CITATION TION  9 scc 472 : (2018) 4 scc (civ) 387] ,  B-CITATION (5) I-CITATION uestion was raised as to whether  B-PROVISION section 34 I-PROVISION (5) of the arbitration and conciliation act, 1996, inserted by amending act 3 of 2016 is mandatory or directory B-CITATION (2005) I-CITATION ara 11 of the said judgment, this court referred to kailash v. nanhku [kailash v. nanhku, (2005) 4 scc 480] , B-PROVI B-PROVISION rule 1 I-PROVISION rder 8 I-PROVIS B-CITATION (in para 12) I-CITATION he te B-CITATION (2) I-CITATION of order 8 rule 1 as  B-CITATION (2) I-CITAT B-CITATION (2005) I-CITATION ood pre the amendment made by the commercial courts act. it also referred (in para 12) B-CITATION (2005) I-CITATION lem advocate bar assn. (2) v. union of india [salem advocate bar assn. (2) v. union of india, (2005) 6 scc 344] , which, like the kailash [kailash v. B-PROVI B-PROVISION rule 1 I-PROVISION rder 8 I-PROVISION , (2005) 4 scc  B-CITATION (2013)  B-CITATION ( B-CITATION  B-CITATION ( B-CITATION (l&s) I-CITATION  I-C B-CITATION (2) I-CITATION TION I-CITATION  I-CITATION TION udgment, held that the mere expression “shall” in order 8 rule 1 would not make the provision mandatory. this court then went on to discuss in para 17 of sta B-PROVISION section 154 I-PROVISION gnaneswaran [state v. n.s. gnaneswaran, (2013) 3 scc 594 : (2013) 3 scc (cri) 235 : (2013) 1 scc (l&s) 688] , in which section 154(2) of th B-PROVISION B-PROVISION section 29 I-PROVISION 4 I-PROVISION criminal procedure was held to be directory inasmuch as no consequence was provided if the section was breached. in para 22 by way of contrast to section 34, section 29-a of the arbitration act was set out. this court then noted in para 23 as under:
 B-CITATION (bihar rajya bhumi vikas bank samiti case [state of bihar v. bihar rajya bhumi vikas bank samiti, (2018)  B-CITATION ( B-CITATION (civ) I-CITATION  I-CITATION TION  9 scc 472 : (2018) 4 scc (civ) 387] , scc p B-CITAT B-CITATION (6) I-CITATION  (5) I-CITATION 89) “23. it will be seen from this provision that, unlike sections 34(5) and (6), if an award is made beyond the stipulated or extended period contained in the section, the consequence of  B-CITAT B-CITATION (6) I-CITATION  (5) I-CITATION  mandate of the arbitrator being terminated is expressly provided. this provision is in stark contrast to sections 34(5) and (6) where, as has been stated hereinabove, if the period for deciding the application under  B-PROVISION section 34 I-PROVISION  has elapsed, no consequence is provided. this is one more indicator that the same amendment act, when it provided time periods in different situations, did so intending different consequences.”
10. several high court judgments on the amended  B-PROVI B-PROVISION rule 1 I-PROVISION rder 8 I-PROVISION  rule 1 have now held that given the consequence of non-
filing of written statement, the amended provisions of the cpc will have to be held to be mandatory. see oku tech  B-CITATION (p) I-CITATION  ltd. v. sa B-CITATION (p) I-CITATION et agarwal [oku tech (p) ltd. v. sangeet agarwal, 2016 scc online del 6601] by a learned single judg B-CITATION (os) I-CITATION  the delhi high court dated 11-8-2016 in cs (os) no. 3390 of 2015 as followed by several other judgments including a B-CITATION (p) I-CITATION dgment of the delh B-CITATION (p) I-CITATION igh court in maja cosmetics v. oasis commercial (p) ltd. [maja cosmetics v. oasis commercial (p) ltd., 2018 scc online del 6698]
11. we are of the view that the view taken by the delhi high court in these judgments is correct in view of the fact that the consequence of forfeiting a right to file the written statement; non-extension of any further time; and the fact that the court shall not allow the written statement to be taken on record all points to the fact that the earlier law on  B-PROVI B-PROVISION rule 1 I-PROVISION rder 8 I-PROVISI B-PROVI B-PROVISION rule 1 I-PROVISION rder 8 I-PROVISION e 1 on the filing of written statement under order 8 rule 1 has now been set at naught.”
36. by way of contrast, there is no such provision contained in  B-PROVISION section 13 I-PROVISION  of the commercial courts act. the judgment in hongo  B-CITATION (supra) I-CITATION , strongly relied upon by dr. george, is clearly distingui B-PROVISION sectio B-CITATION (supra) I-CITATION PROVISION  hongo (supra), section 35-h of the central excise act provided for a period of 180 days for filing a reference application to the high court. the scheme of the central excise act was adverted to in paragraph 15 of the judgment, which reads as follows:
“15. we have already pointed out that in the case of appeal to the commissioner,  B-PROVISION section 35 I-PROVISION  provides 60 days' time and in addition to the same, the commissioner has power to condone the delay up to 30 days, if sufficient  B-PROVISION section 35 I-PROVISION hown. likewise, section 35-b provides 90 days' time for filing appeal to the appellate tribunal and sub-section  B-CITATION (5) I-CITATION  therein enables the appellate tribunal to condone the delay irrespective of the numb B-PROVISION section 35 I-PROVISION , if sufficient cause is shown. likewise, section 35-ee which provides 90 days' time for filing revision by the central government and, proviso to the same enables the revisional authority to condone the delay for a further period of 90 days, if suf B-PROVISION section 35 I-PROVISION use is shown, w B-PROVISION section 35 I-PROVISION the case of appeal to the high court under section 35-g and reference to the high court under section 35-h of the act, total period of 180 days has been provided for availing the remedy of appeal and the reference. however, there is no further clause empowering the high court to condone the delay after the period of 180 days.”
37. the court then went on to observe:
“33. even otherwise, for filing an appeal to the commissioner, and to the appellate tribunal as well as revision to the central government, the legislature has provided 60 days and 90 days respectively, on the other hand, for filing an appeal and reference to the high court larger period of 180 days has been provided with to enable the commissioner and the other party to avail the same. we are of the view that the legislature provided sufficient time, namely, 180 days for filing reference to the high court which is more than the period prescribed for an appeal and revision.
34. though, an argument was raised based on  B-PROVISION section 29 I-PROVISION  of the limitatio B-PROVISION section 29 I-PROVISION n assuming that section 29 B-CITATION (2) I-CITATION  would be attracted, what we have to determine is whether the provisions of this section are expressly excluded in the case of reference to the high court.
35. it was contended before us that the words “expressly excluded” would mean that there must be an express reference made in the special or local law to the specific provisions of the limitation act of which the operation is to be excluded. in this regard, we have to see the scheme of the special law which here in this case is the central excise act. the nature of the remedy provided therein is such that the legislature intended it to be a complete code by itself which alone should govern the several matters provided by it. if, on an examination of the relevant provisions, it is clear that the provisions of the limitation act are necessarily excluded, then the benefits conferred therein cannot be called in aid to supplement the provisions of the act. in our considered view, that even in a case where the special law does not exclude the provisions of sections 4 to 24 of the limitation act by an express reference, it would nonetheless be open to the court to examine whether and to what extent, the nature of those provisions or the nature of the subject-matter and scheme of the special law exclude their operation. in other words, the applicability of the provisions of the limitation act, therefore, is to be judged not from the terms of the limitation act but by the provisions of the central excise act relating to filing of reference application to the high court.
36. the scheme of the central excise act, 1944 supports the conclusion that the time-limit prescribed under  B-PROVISION section 35 I-PROVISION -h B-CITATION (1) I-CITATION  to make a reference to the high court is absolute and unex B-PROVISION section 5 I-PROVISION by a court under section 5 of the limitation act. it is well-settled law that it is the duty of the court to respect the legislative intent and by giving liberal interpretation, limitati B-PROVISION section 5 I-PROVISION  be extended by invoking the provisions of section 5 of the limitation act.”
38. unlike the scheme of the central excise act relied upon in hongo  B-CITATION (supra) I-CITATION , there are no other provisions in the commercial courts act which provide for a period of limitation coupled with a condonation of delay provision which is either open-ended or capped. also, the period of 180 days provided was one indicia which led the court to exclude the application of  B-PROVISION section 5 I-PROVISION  of the limitation act, as it was double and triple the period provided for appeals under the other pr B-PROVISION section 13 I-PROVISION f  B-CITATION (1a) I-CITATION same act. section 13(1a) of the commercial courts act, by way of contrast, applies an intermediate period of 60 days for filing an appeal, that is, a period that is halfway between 30 days and 90 days provided by articles 116 and 117 of the limitation act.
39. the other judgments relied upon by dr. george are all distinguishable in that they are judgments which deal with provisions that provide for a period of limitation and a period of condonation of delay beyond which delay cannot be condoned, such as  B-PROVISION section 125 I-PROVISION  of the electricity act. (see suryachakra power corpn. ltd. v.
electricity deptt.,  B-CITATION (2016) I-CITATION  16 scc 152 at paragraph 10; ongc v. gujarat energy tr B-CITATION (2017) I-CITATION sion corpn. ltd., (2017) 5 scc 42 at paragraphs 5-10).
40.  B-PROVISION section 21 I-PROVISION  of the commercial courts act was also pressed into service stating that the non-obstante clause contained in the commercial courts act would override other acts, including the limitation act, as a result of wh B-PROVISION section 5 I-PROVISION applicability of section 5 thereof would be excluded. this argument has been addressed in the context of the ibc in b.k. educational services  B-CITATION (p) I-CITATION  ltd. v. pa B-CITATION (2019) I-CITATION pta & associates, (2019) 11 scc 633, as follows:
“41. shri dholakia argued that the code being complete in itself, an intruder such as the limitation act must be shut out also by application of  B-PROVISION section 238 I-PROVISION  of the code which provides that, “notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force”, the provisions of the code would ove B-PROVISION section 60 I-PROVISION  laws. in fact, section 60 B-CITATION (6) I-CITATION  of the code specifically states as follows:
“60. adjudicating authority for corporate persons.— B-C B-CITATIO B-CITATION (6) I-CITATION 5) I-CITATION TION (1) I-CITATION -(5) * B-CITATION (36 of 1963) I-CITATION withstanding anything contained in the limitation act, 1963 (36 of 1963) or in any other law for the time being in force, in computing the period of limitation specified for any suit or application by or against a corporate debtor for which an order of moratorium has been made under this part, the period during which such moratorium is in place shall be excluded.” this provision would have been wholly unnecessary if the limitation act was otherwise excluded either by reason of the code being complete in itself or by virtue of  B-PROVISION section 238 I-PROV B-PROVISION section 433 I-PROVISION he code B-PROVISION section 238 I-PROVISION tion 433 of the companies act as well as section 238-a of the code, apply the provisions of the limitation act “as far as may be”. obviously, therefore, where periods of limitation have been laid down in the code, these periods will apply notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the limitation act.
from this, it does not follow that the baby must be thrown out with the bathwater. this argument, therefore, must also be rejected.”
41. for all these reasons we reject the argument made by shri george that the application of  B-PROVISION section 5 I-PROVISION  of the limitation act is excluded given the scheme of commercial courts act.
42. the next important argument that needs to be addressed is as to whether the hard and fast rule applied by this court in n.v. international  B-CITATION (supra) I-CITATION  is correct in law. firstly, as has correctly been argued by shri shr B-CITATION (supra) I-CITATION v. international (supra) does not notice the provisions of the commercial courts act at all and can be said to be per incuriam on this count. secondly, it is also correct to note that the period of 90 days plus 30 days and not thereafter m B-CITATION (3) I-CITATION ioned in  B-PROVISION section 34 I-PROVISION (3) of the arbitration act cannot now apply, the limitation period for filing of appeals under the commercial courts act being 60 days and not 90 days. thirdly, the argument that absent a provision curtailing the condonation of delay beyo B-PROVISION section 13 I-PROVISION iod provided in section 13 of the commercial courts act would also make it cle B-PROVISION sectio B-PROVISION section 37 B-CITATION (3) I-CITATION PROVISION VISION y such bodily lifting of the last part of section 34(3) into section 37 of the arbitration act would also be unwarranted. we cannot accept shri navare’s argument that this is a mere casus omissus which can be filled in by the court.
43. the difference between interpretation and legislation is sometimes a fine one, as it has repeatedly been held that judges do not merely interpret the law but also create law. in eera v. state  B-CITATION (nct B-CITATION (2017) I-CITATION lhi) I-CITATION , (2017) 15 scc 133, this court was faced with the inter B- B-CITATION (d) I-CITATION ATION (1) I-CITATION tation of  B-PROVISION section 2 I-PROVISION (1)(d) of the protection of children from sexual offences act, 2012. this provision reads as follows:
“ B- B- B-CITATION (d) I-CITATION ATION (1) I-CITATION ATION (2) I-CITATION (1)(d) "child" means any person below the age of eighteen years;”
44. the argument made before the court was that the age of 18 years did not only refer to physical age, but could also refer to the mental age of the “child” as defined. this court was therefore faced with the difficulty between interpreting the law as it stands, and legislating. the concurring judgment of nariman, j. put it thus:
“103. having read the erudite judgment of my learned brother, and agreeing fully with him on the conclusion reached, given the importance of the montesquiean separation of powers doctrine where the judiciary should not transgress from the field of judicial law-making into the field of legislative law-making, i have felt it necessary to add a few words of my own.
104. mr sanjay r. hegde, the learned amicus curiae, has argued before us that the interpretation of  B-PROVISION section 2 I-PROVISION  B- B-CITATION (d) I-CITATION ATION (1) I-CITATION (d) of the protection of children from sexual offences act, 2012 cannot include “mental” age as such an interpretation would be beyond the “lakshman rekha” — that is, it is no part of this court's function to add to or amend the law as it stands. this court's function is limited to interpreting the law as it stands, and this being the case, he has exhorted us not to go against the plain literal meaning of the statute.
105. since mr hegde's argument raises the constitutional spectre of separation of powers, let it first be admitted that under our constitutional scheme, judges only declare the law; it is for the legislatures to make the law. this much at least is clear on a conjoint reading of articles 141 and 245 of the constitution of india, which are set out hereinbelow:
“141. law declared by supreme court to be binding on all courts.—the law declared by the supreme court shall be binding on all courts within the territory of india.
***
245. extent of laws made by parliament and by the legislatures of states.— B-CITATION (1) I-CITATION  subject to the provisions of this constitution, parliament may make laws for the whole or any part of the territory of india, and the legislature of a state may make laws for the whole or any part of the state.
 B-CITATION (2) I-CITATION  no law made by parliament shall be deemed to be invalid on the ground that it would have extra- B-CITATION (emphasis supplied) I-CITATION on.” (emphasis supplied)
106. that the legislature cannot “declare” law is embedded in anglo-saxon jurisprudence. bills of attainder, which used to be passed by parliament in england, have never been passed from the 18th century onwards. a legislative judgment is anathema. as early as 1789, the us constitution expressly outlawed bills of attainder vide article i  B-PROVISION section 9 I-PROVISION  B-CITATION (3) I-CITATION . this being the case with the legislature, the counter-argument is that the judiciary equally cannot “make” but can only “declare” law. while declaring the law, can judges make law as well?...”
45. the concurring judgment went on to state:
“127. it is thus clear on a reading of english, us, australian and our own supreme court judgments that the “lakshman rekha” has in fact been extended to move away from the strictly literal rule of interpretation back to the rule of the old english case of heydon [heydon case,  B-CITATION (1584) I-CITATION  3 co rep 7a : 76 er 637] , where the court must have recourse to the purpose, object, text and context of a particular provision before arriving at a judicial result. in fact, the wheel has turned full circle. it started out by the rule as stated in 1584 in he B-CITATION (1584) I-CITATION ase [heydon case, (1584) 3 co rep 7a : 76 er 637] , which was then waylaid by the literal interpretation rule laid down by the privy council and the house of lords in the mid-1800s, and has come back to restate the rule somewhat in terms of what was most felicitously put  B-CITATION (1584) I-CITATION 00 years ago in heydon case [heydon case, (1584) 3 co rep 7a : 76 er 637] .” “139. a reading of the act as a whole in the light of the statement of objects and reasons thus makes it clear that the intention of the legislator was to focus on children, as commonly understood i.e. persons who are physically under the age of 18 years. the golden rule in determining whether the judiciary has crossed the lakshman rekha in the guise of interpreting a statute is really whether a judge has only ironed out the creases that he found in a statute in the light of its object, or whether he has altered the material of which the act is woven. in short, the difference is the well-known philosophical difference between “is” and “ought”. does the judge put himself in the place of the legislator and ask himself whether the legislator intended a certain result, or does he state that this must have been the intent of the legislator and infuse what he thinks should have been done had he been the legislator. if the latter, it is clear that the judge then would add something more than what there is in the statute by way of a supposed intention of the legislator and would go beyond creative interpretation of legislation to legislating itself. it is at this point that the judge crosses the lakshman rekha and becomes a legislator, stating what the law ought to be instead of what the law is.”
46. ultimately, the judgment concluded:
“146. a reading of the objects and reasons of the aforesaid act together with the provisions contained therein would show that whatever is the physical age of the person affected, such person would be a “person with disability” who would be governed by the provisions of the said act.
conspicuous by its absence is the reference to any age when it comes to protecting persons with disabilities under the said act.
147. thus, it is clear that viewed with the lens of the legislator, we would be doing violence both to the intent and the language of parliament if we were to read the word “mental” into  B-PROVISION section 2 I-PROVISION  B- B-CITATION (d) I-CITATION ATION (1) I-CITATION (d) of the 2012 act. given the fact that it is a beneficial/penal legislation, we as judges can extend it only as far as parliament intended and no further.
i am in agreement, therefore, with the judgment of my learned brother, including the directions given by him.”
47. given the ‘lakshman rekha’ laid down in this judgment, it is a little difficult to appreciate how a cap can be judicially engrafted onto a statutory provision which then bars condonation of delay by even one day beyond the cap so engrafted.
48. shri george, however, relied upon the judgments of this court in chandi prasad v. jagdish prasad,  B-CITATION (2004) I-CITATION  8 scc 724 (at paragraph
22) and d. purushotama reddy v. k. sateesh,  B-CITATION (2008 B-CITATION (at paragraph 11) I-CITATION cc 505 (at paragraph 11), to support the B-CITATION (supra) I-CITATION  B-CITATION (supra) I-CITATION tained in varindera constructions (supra) and n.v. international (supr B-CITATION (2008) I-CITATION  relied strongly upon paragraph 11 of the judgment in d. purushotama reddy v. k. sateesh, (2008) 8 scc 505, which reads as follows:
“11. we have noticed hereinbefore that whereas the judgment of conviction and sentence was passed on 15- 12-2005, the suit was decreed by the civil court on 23-1- 2006. deposit of a sum of rs 2,00,000 by the  B-APPELLANT appellants I-APPELLANT  in favour of the  B-RESPONDENT respondent I-RESPONDENT  herein, was directed by the criminal court. such an order should have been taken into consideration by the trial court. an appeal from a decree, furthermore, is a continuation of suit. the limitation of power on a civil court should also be borne in mind by the appellate court. was any duty cast upon the civil court to consider the amount of compensation deposited in terms of  B-PROVISION section 357 I-PROVISION  of the code is the question.”
49. from this paragraph, what was sought to be argued was that the limitation of power on a civil court at the initial stage can be read as a limitation onto the appellate court, as was done in the aforesaid judgments. we are afraid that we are unable to agree. this sentence was in the context of a decree passed in a civil suit for a sum of rupees 3.09 lakh with interest, without taking into consideration the fact that an amount of rupees 2.10 lakh had already been deposited by the  B-APPELLANT appellant I-APPELLANT  in criminal proceedings. the court relied upon  B-PROVISION section 357 I-PROVISION  B-CITATION (5) I-CITATION  of the code of criminal procedure, 1973 to hold that “the court” shall take into account any sum paid or recovered as compensation at the time of awarding compensation in any subsequent civil suit relating to the same matter. “the court” would obviously include an appellate court as well. it was only in this context that the aforesaid observation of limitation of power on a civil court being “borne in mind” by the appellate court, was made.
50. shri george’s reliance upon the judgment of this court in p. radha bai v. p. ashok kumar,  B-CITATION (2019) B-CITATION (at paragraphs 36.2-36.3) I-CITATION at paragraphs 36.2-36.3) on the doctrine of unbreakability when B-CITATION (3) I-CITATION plied to  B-PROVISION section 34 I-PROVISION (3) of the arbitration act, also does not carry the matter much further, as the question is whether this doctrine can be bodily lifted and engrafted onto an appeal provision that has no cut-off point beyond which delay cannot be condoned.
for all these reasons, given the illuminating arguments made in these appeals, we are of the view that n.v. international  B-CITATION (supra) I-CITATION  has been wrongly decided and is therefore overruled.
51. however, the matter does not end here. the question still arises as to the application of  B-PROVISION section 5 I-PROVISION  of the limitation act to appeals which are governed by a uniform 60-day period of limitation. at one extreme, we have the judgment in n.v. international  B-CITATION (supra) I-CITATION  which does not allow condonation of delay beyond 30 days, and at the other extreme, we have an open-ended provision in which any amount of delay can be condoned, provided sufficient cause is shown. it is between these two extremes that we have to steer a middle course.
52. one judicial tool with which to steer this course is contained in the latin maxim ut res magis valeat quam pereat. this maxim was fleshed out in cit v. hindustan bulk carriers,  B-CITATION (2003) I-CITATION  3 scc 57 as follows:2 “14. a construction which reduces the statute to a futility has to be avoided. a statute or any enacting provision therein must be so construed as to make it effective and operative on the principle expressed in the maxim ut res magis valeat quam pereat i.e. a liberal construction should be put upon written instruments, so as to uphold them, if possible, and carry into effect the intention of the parties. [s B-CITATION (10th edn.) I-CITATION legal B-CITATION (7th edn.) I-CITATION 0th edn. B-CITATION (11th edn.) I-CITATION craies on statutes (7th edn.), p. 95 and maxwell on statutes (11th edn.), p. 221.]
15. a statute is designed to be workable and the interpretation thereof by a court should be to secure that object unless crucial omission or clear direction makes that end unattainable.  B-CITATION (see whitney v. irc [1926 ac 37 : 10 tax cas 88 : 95 ljkb 165 : 134 lt 98 (hl) I-CITATION ] , ac at p. 52 referred to in cit v. s. teja singh [air 1959 sc 352 :
 B-CITATION (1959) I-CITATION  35 itr 408] and gursahai saigal v.  B-CITATION (1963) I-CITATION ir 1963 sc 1062 : (1963) 48 itr 1] .)
16. the courts will have to reject that construction which will defeat the plain intention of the legislature even though there may be some inexactitude in the language used.  B-CITATION (see salmon v. duncombe [(1886) I-CITATION  11 ac 627 : B-CITATION (pc) I-CITATION ljpc 69 :  B-CITATION (1889) I-CITATION 446 (pc)] ac a B-CITATION (ca) I-CITATION  634, curtis v. stovin [(1889)  B-CITATION (1959) I-CITATION  513 : 58 ljqb 174 : 60 lt 772 (ca)] referred to in s. teja singh case [air 1959 sc 352 : (19 B-CITATION (20 B-CITATION (see paragraphs 333-334) I-CITATION .) 2 followed in the separate opinion delivered by pasayat, j. in ashoka kumar thakur v. union of india, (2008) 6 scc 1 (see paragraphs 333-334).
17. if the choice is between two interpretations, the narrower of which would fail to achieve the manifest purpose of the legislation, we should avoid a construction which would reduce the legislation to futility, and should rather accept the bolder construction, based on the view that parliament would legislate only for the purpose of bringing about an effective result.  B-CITATION (see nokes v. doncaster amalgamated collieries [(1940) I-CITATION  3 all er 549 : 1940 ac 1014 : 10 B-CITATION (hl) I-CITATION kb 865 : 163 lt 343 (hl)] re B-CITATION (1954) I-C B-CITATION (1954) B-CITATION (pc) I-CITATION ITATION N  to in pye v. minister for lands for nsw [(1954) 3 all er 514 : (1954) 1 wlr 1410 (pc)] .) the pri B-CITATION (1) I-CITAT B-CITATION  B-CITATION (1992) I-CITATION I-CITATION les indicated in the said cases were reiterated by this court in mohan kumar singhania v. union of india [1992 supp (1) scc 594 : 1992 scc (l&s) 455 : (1992) 19 atc 881 : air 1992 sc 1] .
18. the statute must be read as a whole and one provision of the act should be construed with reference to other provisions in the same act so as to make a consistent enactment of the whole statute.
19. the court must ascertain the intention of the legislature by directing its attention not merely to the clauses to be construed but to the entire statute; it must compare the clause with other parts of the law and the setting in which the clause to be interpreted occurs.  B-CITATION (see r.s. raghunath v. state of karnataka [(1992) I-CITATIO B-CITATION  B-CITATION (1992) I-CITATION I-CITATION scc 335 : 1992 scc (l&s) 286 : (1992) 19 atc 507 : air 1992 sc 81] .) such a construction has the merit of avoiding any inconsistency or repugnancy either within a section or between two different sections or provisions of the same statute. it is the duty of t B-CITATION (see sultana begum v. prem chand jain [(1997) I-CITATION  sections of the same act. (see sultana begum v. prem chand jain [(1997) 1 scc 373 : air 1997 sc 1006] .)
20. whenever it is possible to do so, it must be done to construe the provisions which appear to conflict so that they harmonise. it should not be lightly assumed that parliament had given with one hand what it took away with the other.
21. the provisions of one section of the statute cannot be used to defeat those of another unless it is impossible to effect reconciliation between them. thus a construction that reduces one of the provisions to a “useless lumber” or “dead letter” is not a harmonised construction. to harmonise is not to destroy.”
53. reading the arbitration act and the commercial courts act as a whole, it is clear that when  B-PROVISION section 37 I-PROVISION  of the arbitratio B-PROVISION article 116 I-PROVISION ad with B-PROVISION section 13 I-PROVISION ticle 116 or 117 of the limitation act or section 13 B-CITATION (1a) I-CITATION  of the commercial courts act, the object and context provided by the afore B-PROVISION section 37 I-PROVISION tes, re B-PROVISION section 5 I-PROVISION hole, is the speedy disposal of appeals filed under section 37 of the arbitration act. to read section 5 of the limitation act consistently with the aforesaid object, it is n B-PROVISION section 37 I-PROVISION o discover as to what the expression “sufficient cause” means in the context of condoning delay in filing appeals under section 37 of the arbitration act.
54. the expression “sufficient cause” contained in  B-PROVISION section 5 I-PROVISION  of the limitation act is elastic enough to yield different results depending upon the object and context of a statute. thus, in ajmer kaur v. state of punjab,  B-CITATION (2004) I-CITATION  7 scc 381, this B-PROVISION section 11 I-PROVISION  t B-CITATION (5) I-CITATION context of section 11(5) of the punjab land reforms act, 1972, held as follows:
“10. permitting an application under  B-PROVISION section 11 I-PROVISION  B-CITATION (5) I-CITATION  to be moved at any time would have disastrous consequences. the state government in which the land vests on being declared as surplus, will not be able to utilise the same. the state government cannot be made to wait indefinitely before putting the land to use. where the land is utilised by the state government, a consequence of the order passed subsequently could be of divesting it of the land. taking the facts of the present case by way of an illustration, it would mean that the land which stood mutated in the state government in 1982 and which was allotted by the state government to third parties in 1983, would as a result of reopening the settled position, lead to third parties being asked to restore back the land to the state government and the state government in turn would have to be divested of the land. the land will in turn be restored to the landowner. this will be the result of the land being declared by the collector as not surplus with the landowner. the effect of permitting such a situation will be that the land will remain in a situation of flux. there will be no finality. the very purpose of the legislation will be defeated. the allottee will not be able to utilise the land for fear of being divested in the event of deaths and births in the family of the landowners. deaths and births are events which are bound to occur. therefore, it is reasonable to read a time-li B-PROVISION section  B-CITATION (5) I-CITATION I-PROVISION -section (5) of section 11. the concept of reasonable time in the given facts would be most appropriate. an application must be moved within a reasonable time. the facts of the present case demons B-PROVISION section 11 B-CITATION (5) I-CITATION PROVISION  redetermination under sub-section (5) of section 11 almost 5 years after the death of kartar kaur and more than 6 years after the order of the collector declaring the land as surplus had become final, has resulted in grave injustice besides defeating the object of the legislation which was envisaged as a socially beneficial piece of legislation. thus we hold that the B-PROVISION section 11 I B-CITATION (5) I-CITATION OVISION on for redetermination filed by daya singh under sub-section (5) of section 11 of the act on 21-6-1985 was liable to be dismissed on the ground of inordinate delay and the collector was wrong in reopening the issue declaring the land as not surplus in the hands of daya singh and kartar kaur.
11. the above reasoning is in consonance with the provision in sub-section  B-CITATION (7) I-CITATION  of  B-PROVISION section 11 I-PROVISION  of the act. sub-
section  B-CITATION (7) I-CITATION  uses the words “where succession has opened after the surplus area or any part thereof has been determined by the collector …”. the words “determined by the collector” would mean that the order of the collector has attained finality. the provisions regarding appeals, etc. contained in sections 80-82 of the punjab tenancy act, 1887, as made applicable to proceedings under the punjab land reforms act, 1972, show that the maximum period of limitation in case of appeal or review is ninety days. the appeal against the final order of the collector dated 30-9- 1976 whereby 3.12 hectares of land had been declared as surplus was dismissed on 27-3-1979. the order was allowed to become final as it was not challenged any further. thus the determination by the collector became final on 27-3-1979. the same could not be reopened after a lapse of more than 6 years by order dated 23-7-1985. the subsequent proceedings before the revenue authorities did not lie. the order dated 23-7-1985 is non est. all the subsequent proceedings therefore fall through. the issue could n B-CITATION (emphasis supplied) I-CITATION ed.” (emphasis supplied)
55. nearer home, in brahampal v. national insurance company, 2020 scc online sc 1053, this court specifically referred to the difference between a delay in filing commercial claims under the arbitration act or the commercial courts act and claims under the motor vehicles act, 1988, as follows:
“16. this court has firstly held that purpose of conferment of such power must be examined for the determination of the scope of such discretion conferred upon the court. [refer to bhaiya punjalal bhagwandin v. dave bhagwatprasad prabhuprasad, air 1963 sc 120; shri prakash chand agarwal v. hindustan steel ltd.,  B-CITATION (1970) I-CITATION  2 scc 806]. our analysis of the purpose of the act suggests that such discretionary power is conferred upon the courts, to enforce the rights of the victims and their dependents. the legislature intended that courts must have such power so as to ensure that substantive justice is not trumped by technicalities.
 B-CITATION (emphasis supplied) I-CITATION  “22. therefore, the aforesaid provision being a beneficial legislation, must be given liberal interpretation to serve its object. keeping in view the substantive rights of the parties, undue emphasis should not be given to technicalities. in such cases delay in filing and refiling cannot be viewed strictly, as compared to commercial claims under the arbitration and concilliation act, 1996 or the commercial courts act, 2015. in p. radha B-CITATION (2019) I-CITATION . p. ashok kumar, (2019) 13 scc 445, wherein this court while interpreting  B-PROVISION section 34 I-PROVISION  of the arbitration act, held that the right to object to an award itself is substantively bound with the limitation period prescribed therein and the same cannot merely a procedural prescription. in effect the court held that a complete petition, has to be filed within  B-PROVISION section 34 I-PROVISION rescribed under section 34 of the arbitration act and ‘not thereafter’.
the court while coming to the aforesaid conclusion, reasoned as under:
“36.1 first, the purpose of the arbitration act was to provide for a speedy dispute resolution process. the statement of objects and reasons reveal that the legislative intent of enacting the arbitration act was to provide parties with an efficient alternative dispute resolution system which gives litigants an expedited resolution of disputes while reducing the burden on the courts.  B-PROVISION article 34 I-PROVISION  B-CITATION (3) I-CITATION  reflects this intent when it defines the commencement and concluding period for challenging an award. this court in popular construction case [union of india v. po B-CITATION (2001) I-CITATION construction co., (2001) 8 scc 470] highlighted the importance of the fixed periods under the arbitration act. we may also add that the finality is a fundamental principle enshrined under the arbitration act and a definitive time- limit for challenging an award is necessary  B-PROVISION section 17 I-PROVISION ng finality. if section 17 were to be applied, an award can be challenged even after 120 days. this would defeat the arbitration act's objective of speedy resolution of disputes. the finality of award would also be in a limbo as a party can cha B-CITATION (emphasis in original) I-CITATION fter the 120 day period.” (emphasis in original) “23. coming back to the motor vehicles act, the legislative intent is to provide appropriate compensation for the victims and to protect their substantive rights, in pursuit of the same, the interpretation should not be as strict as commercial claims as elucidated above.
24. undoubtedly, the statute has granted the courts with discretionary powers to condone the delay, however at the same time it also places an obligation upon the party to justify that he was prevented from abiding by the same due to the existence of “sufficient cause”. although there exists no strait jacket formula for the courts to condone delay, but the courts must not only take into consideration the entire facts and circumstances of case but also the conduct of the parties. the concept of reasonableness dictates that, the courts even while taking a liberal approach must weigh in the rights and obligations of both the parties. when a right has accrued in favour of one party due to gross negligence and lackadaisical attitude of the other, this court shall refrain from exercising the aforesaid discretionary relief.
25. taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of the present case, we are of the opinion that the delay of 45 days has been properly explained by the  B-APPELLANT appellants I-APPELLANT , which was on account  B-APPELLANT appellant I-APPELLANT s of the wife of appellant no.
1. it was not appropriate on the part of the high court to dismiss the appeal merely on the ground of delay of short duration, particularly in matters involving death in motor accident claims. moreover, in the present case no mala fide can be imputable against the  B-APPELLANT appellants I-APPELLANT  for filing the appeal after the expiry of ninety days. therefore, we are of the opinion that the strict approach taken in the impugned order is hyper-technical and cannot be sustained in the eyes of law.”  B-CITATION (emphasis supplied) I-CITATION 
56. given the object sought to be achieved under both the arbitration act and the commercial courts act, that is, the speedy resolution of disputes, the expression “sufficient cause” is not elastic enough to cover long delays beyond the period provided by the appeal provision itself. besides, the expression “sufficient cause” is not itself a loose panacea for the ill of pressing negligent and stale claims. this court, in basawaraj v. land acquisition officer,  B-CITATION (2013) I-CITATION  14 scc 81, has held:
“9. sufficient cause is the cause for which the  B-RESPONDENT defendant I-RESPONDENT  could not be blamed for his absence. the meaning of the word “sufficient” is “adequate” or “enough”, inasmuch as may be necessary to answer the purpose intended. therefore, the word “sufficient” embraces no more than that which provides a platitude, which when the act done suffices to accomplish the purpose intended in the facts and circumstances existing in a case, duly examined from the viewpoint of a reasonable standard of a cautious man. in this context, “sufficient cause” means that the party should not have acted in a negligent manner or there was a want of bona fide on its part in view of the facts and circumstances of a case or it cannot be alleged that the party has “not acted diligently” or “remained inactive”. however, the facts and circumstances of each case must afford sufficient ground to enable the court concerned to exercise discretion for the reason that whenever the court exercises discretion, it has to be exercised judiciously. the applicant must satisfy the court that he was prevented by any “sufficient cause” from prosecuting his case, and unless a satisfactory explanation is furnished, the court should not allow the application for condonation of delay. the court has to examine whether the mistake is bona fide or was merely a device to cover an ulterior purpose.  B-CITATION (see manindra land and building corpn. ltd. v. bhutnath banerjee [air 1964 sc 1336] , mata din v. a. narayanan [(1969) I-CITATION  2 scc 770 : air 1970 sc 19 B-CITATION (2011)  B-CITATION ( B-CITATION (civ) I-CITATION  I-CITATION TION parimal v. veena [(2011) 3 scc 545 : (2011)  B-CITATION (2012)  B-CITATION ( B-CITATION (civ) I-CITATION  I-CITATION TION (civ) 1 : air 2011 sc 1150] and maniben devraj shah v. municipal corpn. of brihan mumbai [(2012) 5 scc 157 : (2012) 3 scc (civ) 24 : air 2012 sc 1629] .)
10. in arjun singh v. mohindra kumar [air 1964 sc 993] this court explained the difference between a “good cause” and a “sufficient cause” and observed that every “sufficient cause” is a good cause and vice versa. however, if any difference exists it can only be that the requirement of good cause is complied with on a lesser degree of proof than that of “sufficient cause”.
11. the expression “sufficient cause” should be given a liberal interpretation to ensure that substantial justice is done, but only so long as negligence, inaction or lack of bona fides cannot be imputed to the party concerned, whether or not sufficient cause has been furnished, can be decided on the facts of a particular case and no straitjacket formula is possible.  B-CITATION (vide madanlal v. shyamlal [(2002) I-CITATION  1 scc 535 : air 2002 sc 100] and ram nath sao v.
gobardhan sao [ B-CITATION (2002) I-CITATION  3 scc 195 : air 2002 sc 1201] .)
12. it is a settled legal proposition that law of limitation may harshly affect a particular party but it has to be applied with all its rigour when the statute so prescribes. the court has no power to extend the period of limitation on equitable grounds. “a result flowing from a statutory provision is never an evil. a court has no power to ignore that provision to relieve what it considers a distress resulting from its operation.” the statutory provision may cause hardship or inconvenience to a particular party but the court has no choice but to enforce it giving full effect to the same. the legal maxim dura lex sed lex which means “the law is hard but it is the law”, stands attracted in such a situation. it has consistently been held that, “inconvenience is not” a decisive factor to be considered while interpreting a statute.
13. the statute of limitation is founded on public policy, its aim being to secure peace in the community, to suppress fraud and perjury, to quicken diligence and to prevent oppression. it seeks to bury all acts of the past which have not been agitated unexplainably and have from lapse of time become stale. according to halsbury's laws of england, vol. 28, p. 266:
“605. policy of the limitation acts.—the courts have expressed at least three differing reasons supporting the existence of statutes of limitations namely,  B-CITATION (1) I-CITATION  that long dormant claims have more of cruelt B-CITATION (2) I-CITATION han justice in them, (2) that a  B-RESPONDENT defendant I-RESPONDENT  might have l B-CITATION (3) I-CITATION  the evidence to disprove a stale claim, and (3) that persons with good causes of actions should pursue them with reasonable diligence.” an unlimited limitation would lead to a sense of insecurity and uncertainty, and therefore, limitation prevents disturbance or deprivation of what may have been acquired in equity and justice by long enjoyment or w B-CITATION (see popat and kotecha property v. sbi staff assn. [(2005) I-CITATION ce or laches. (see po B-CITATION (1973) I-CITATION d kotecha property v. sbi staff assn. [(2005) 7 scc 510] , B-CITATION (2008) I-CITATION der singh v. santa singh [(1973) 2 scc 705 : air 1973 sc 2537] and pundlik jalam patil v. jalgaon medium project [(2008) 17 scc 448 :
 B-CITATION ( B-CITATION (civ) I-CITATION  I-CITATION  5 scc (civ) 907] .)
14. in p. ramachandra rao v. state of karnataka [ B-CITATION (2002) I-CITATIO B-CITATION (cri) I-CITATION scc 578 : 2002 scc (cri) 830 : air 2002 sc 1856] this court held that judicially engrafting principles of limitation amounts to legislating and would fly in the face of law laid down by the constituti B-CITATION (1992) I-CITATIO B-CITATION (cri) I-CITATION in abdul rehman antulay v. r.s. nayak [(1992) 1 scc 225 : 1992 scc (cri) 93 : air 1992 sc 1701] .
15. the law on the issue can be summarised to the effect that where a case has been presented in the court beyond limitation, the applicant has to explain the court as to what was the “sufficient cause” which means an adequate and enough reason which prevented him to approach the court within limitation. in case a party is found to be negligent, or for want of bona fide on his part in the facts and circumstances of the case, or found to have not acted diligently or remained inactive, there cannot be a justified ground to condone the delay. no court could be justified in condoning such an inordinate delay by imposing any condition whatsoever. the application is to be decided only within the parameters laid down by this court in regard to the condonation of delay. in case there was no sufficient cause to prevent a litigant to approach the court on time condoning the delay without any justification, putting any condition whatsoever, amounts to passing an order in violation of the statutory provisions and it tantamounts to showing utter disregard to the legislature.”  B-CITATION (emphasis supplied) I-CITATION 
57. likewise, merely because the government is involved, a different yardstick for condonation of delay cannot be laid down. this was felicitously stated in postmaster general v. living media india ltd.,  B-CITATION (2012) I-CITATION  3 scc 563 [“postmaster general”], as follows:
“27. it is not in dispute that the person B-CITATION (s) I-CITATION  concerned were well aware or conversant with the issues involved including the prescribed period of limitation for taking up the matter by way of filing a special leave petition in this court. they cannot claim that they have a separate period of limitation when the department was possessed with competent persons familiar with court proceedings. in the absence of plausible and acceptable explanation, we are posing a question why the delay is to be condoned mechanically merely because the government or a wing of the government is a party before us.
28. though we are conscious of the fact that in a matter of condonation of delay when there was no gross negligence or deliberate inaction or lack of bona fides, a liberal concession has to be adopted to advance substantial justice, we are of the view that in the facts and circumstances, the department cannot take advantage of various earlier decisions. the claim on account of impersonal machinery and inherited bureaucratic methodology of making several notes cannot be accepted in view of the modern technologies being used and available. the law of limitation undoubtedly binds everybody, including the government.
29. in our view, it is the right time to inform all the government bodies, their agencies and instrumentalities that unless they have reasonable and acceptable explanation for the delay and there was bona fide effort, there is no need to accept the usual explanation that the file was kept pending for several months/years due to considerable degree of procedural red tape in the process.
the government departments are under a special obligation to ensure that they perform their duties with diligence and commitment. condonation of delay is an exception and should not be used as an anticipated benefit for the government departments. the law shelters everyone under the same light and should not be swirled for the benefit of a few.”
58. the decision in postmaster general  B-CITATION (supra) I-CITATION  has been followed in the following subsequent judgments of this court:
i) state of rajasthan v. bal kishan mathur,  B-CITATION (2014) I-CITATION  1 scc 592 at paragraphs 8-8.2;
ii) state of u.p. v. amar nath yadav,  B-CITATION (2014) I-CITATION  2 scc 422 at paragraphs 2-3;
iii) state of t.n. v. n. suresh rajan,  B-CITATION (2014) I-CITATION  11 scc 709 at paragraphs 11-13; and
iv) state of m.p. v. bherulal,  B-CITATION (2020) I-CITATION  10 scc 654 at paragraphs 3-4.
59. in a recent judgment, namely, state of m.p. v. chaitram maywade,  B-CITATION (2020) I-CITATION  10 scc 667, this court referre B-CITATION (supra) I-CITATION stmaster general (supra), and held as follows:
“1. the state of madhya pradesh continues to do the same thing again and again and the conduct seems to be incorrigible. the special leave petition has been filed after a delay of 588 days. we had an occasion to deal with such inordinately delayed filing of the appeal by the state of madhya pradesh in state of m.p. v. bherulal [state of m.p. v. bherulal,  B-CITATION (2020) I-CITATION  10 scc 654] in terms of our order dated 15-10-2020.
2. we have penned down a detailed order in that case and we see no purpose in repeating the same reasoning again except to record what are stated to be the facts on which the delay is sought to be condoned. on 5-1-2019, it is stated that the government advocate was approached in respect of the judgment delivered on 13-11-2018 [chaitram maywade v. state of m.p., 2018 scc online hp 1632] and the law department permitted filing of the slp against the impugned order on 26-5-2020. thus, the law department took almost about 17 months' time to decide whether the slp had to be filed or not. what greater certificate of incompetence would there be for the legal department!
3. we consider it appropriate to direct the chief secretary of the state of madhya pradesh to look into the aspect of revamping the legal department as it appears that the department is unable to file appeals within any reasonable period of time much less within limitation. these kinds of excuses, as already recorded in the aforesaid order, are no more admissible in view of the judgment in postmaster general v. living media  B-CITATION (india) I-CITATION  ltd. [postmaster general v.
living media  B-CITATION (i B-CITATION (2012)  B-CITATION ( B-CITATION  B-CITATION ( B-CITATION  B-CITATION ( B-CITATION (l&s) I-CITATION  I-CITATION I-CITATION  I-CITATION I-CITATION  I-CITATION TION I-CITATION  ltd., (2012) 3 scc 563 : (2012) 2 scc (civ) 327 : (2012) 2 scc (cri) 580 : (2012) 1 scc (l&s) 649]
4. we have also expressed our concern that these kinds of the cases are only “certificate cases” to obtain a certificate of dismissal from the supreme court to put a quietus to the issue. the object is to save the skin of officers who may be in default. we have also recorded the irony of the situation where no action is taken against the officers who sit on these files and do nothing.
5. looking to the period of delay and the casual manner in which the application has been worded, the wastage of judicial time involved, we impose costs on the  B-APPELLANT petitioner I-APPELLANT  state of rs 35,000 to be deposited with the mediation and conciliation project committee. the amount be deposited within four weeks. the amount be recovered from the officer B-CITATION (s) I-CITATION  responsible for the delay in filing and sitting on the files and certificate of recovery of the said amount be also filed in this court within the said period of time. we have put to deputy advocate general to caution that for any successive matters of this kind the costs will keep on going up.”
60. also, it must be remembered that merely because sufficient cause has been made out in the facts of a given case, there is no right in the  B-APPELLANT appellant I-APPELLANT  to have delay condoned. this was felicitously put in ramlal v. rewa coalfields ltd.,  B-CITATION (1962) I-CITATION  2 scr 762 as follows:
“it is, however, necessary to emphasise that even after sufficient cause has been shown a party is not entitled to the condonation of delay in question as a matter of right. the proof of a sufficient cause is a condition precedent for the exercise of the discretionary jurisdiction vested in the court by s. 5. if sufficient cause is not proved nothing further has to be done; the application for condoning delay has to be dismissed on that ground alone. if sufficient cause is shown then the court has to enquire whether in its discretion it should condone the delay. this aspect of the matter naturally introduces the consideration of all relevant facts and it is at this stage that diligence of the party or its bona fides may fall for consideration; but the scope of the enquiry while exercising the discretionary power after sufficient cause is shown would naturally be limited only to such facts as the court may regard as relevant. it cannot justify an enquiry as to why the party was sitting idle during all the time available to it. in this connection we may point out that considerations of bona fides or due diligence are always material and relevant when the court is dealing with applications made under s. 14 of the limitation act. in dealing with such applications the court is called upon to consider the effect of the combined provisions of ss. 5 and
14. therefore, in our opinion, considerations which have been expressly made material and relevant by the provisions of s. 14 cannot to the same extent and in the same manner be invoked in dealing with applications which fall to be decided only under s. 5 without reference to s.
14.”  B-CITATION (page 771) I-CITATION 
61. given the aforesaid and the object of speedy disposal sought to be achieved both under the arbitration act and the commercial courts act, for appeals filed under  B-PROVISION section 37 I-PROVISION  of the arbitration act that are governed by articles 116 and 117 B-PROVISION section 13 I-PROVISION mitation act or section 13 B-CITATION (1a) I-CITATION  of the commercial courts act, a delay beyond 90 days, 30 days or 60 days, respectively, is to be condoned by way of exception and not by way of rule. in a fit case in which a party has otherwise acted bona fide and not in a negligent manner, a short delay beyond such period can, in the discretion of the court, be condoned, always bearing in mind that the other side of the picture is that the opposite party may have acquired both in equity and justice, what may now be lost by the first party’s inaction, negligence or laches.
62. coming to the facts of the appeals before us, in the civil appeal arising out of slp  B-CITATION (c) I-CITATION  no. 665 of 2021, the impugned judgment of the high court of bombay, dated 17.12.2020, has found that the govt of maharashtra had not approached the court bona fide, as follows:
“7. i have carefully gone through the papers. there can be no doubt in view of the documentary evidence in the form of copy of the application tendered by the advocate representing the applicant for obtaining a certified copy  B-CITATION (exhibit-r1) I-CITATION  that in fact, after pronouncement of the judgment and order in the proceeding under  B-PROVISION section 34 I-PROVISION  of the act, the concerned advocate had applied for certified copy on 14.05.2019. the endorsement further reads that it was to be handed over to mr. a.d. patil of the irrigation department, dhule, who is a staff from the office of the applicant. the further endorsements also clearly show that the certified copy was ready and was to be delivered on 27.05.2019. [in spite] of such a stand and document, the applicant has not controverted this or has not come up with any other stand touching this aspect. it is therefore apparent that the applicant is not coming to the court with clean hands even while seeking the discretionary relief of condonation of delay”
63. apart from this, there is a long delay of 131 days beyond the 60- day period provided for filing an appeal under  B-PROVISION section 13 I-PROVISION  B-CITATION (1a) I-CITATION  of the commercial courts act. there is no explanation worth the name contained in the condonation of delay application, beyond the usual file-pushing and administrative exigency. this appeal is therefore dismissed.
64. in the civil appeal arising out of slp  B-CITATION (c) I-CITATION  no. 15278 of 2020, the impugned judgment of the high court of madhya pradesh dated 27.01.2020 relies  B-CITATION (supra) I-CITATION nsolidated engg. (supra) and thereby states that t B-CITATION (supra) I-CITATION ment of this court in n.v. international (supra) would not apply. the judgme B-CITATION (supra) I-CITATION he high court is wholly incorrect inasmuch as consolidated engg. (supra) was a judgment which applied the provisions of  B-PROVISION section 14 I-PROVISION  of the limitation act and had nothing to d B-PROVI B-CITATION (supra) I-CITATION ction 5 I-PROVISION e application of section 5 of the limitation act. n.v. international (supra) wa B-PROVISION section 5 I-PROVISION t judgment which applied the provisions of section 5 of the limitation act and then he B-CITATION (supra) I-CITATION  no condonation of delay could take place beyon B-CITATION (supra) I-CITATION ays. the high court was bound to follow n.v. international (supra), as on the date of the judgment of the high court, n.v. international (supra) was a judgment of two B-PROVISION article 141 I-PROVISION dges of the supreme court binding upon the high court by virtue of article 141 of the constitution. on this score, the impugned judgment of the high court deserves to be set aside.
65. that apart, on the facts of this appeal, there is a long delay of 75 days beyond the period of 60 days provided by the commercial courts act. despite the fact that a certified copy of the district court’s judgment was obtained by the  B-RESPONDENT respondent I-RESPONDENT  on 27.04.2019, the appeal was filed only on 09.09.2019, the explanation for delay being:
“2. that, the certified copy of the order dated 01/04/2013 was received by the  B-APPELLANT appellant I-APPELLANT  on 27/04/2019. thereafter the matter was placed before the cgm purchase mppkvvcl for the compliance of the order. the same was then sent to the law officer, mppkvvcl for opinion.
3. that after taking opinion for appeal, and approval of the concerned authorities, the officer-in-charge was appointed vide order dated 23/07/2019.
4. that, thereafter due to bulky records of the case and for procurement of the necessary documents some delay has been caused however, the appeal has been prepared and filed to pursuant to the same and further delay.
5. that due to the aforesaid procedural approval and since the  B-APPELLANT appellant I-APPELLANT  is a public entity formed under the energy department of the state government, the delay caused in filing the appeal is bonafide and which deserve[s] to be condoned.”
66. this explanation falls woefully short of making out any sufficient cause. this appeal is therefore allowed and the condonation of delay is set aside on this score also.
67. in the civil appeal arising out of slp  B-CITATION (c) I-CITATION  diary no. 18079 of 2020, there is a huge delay of 227 days in filing the appeal, and a 200-day delay in refiling. the facts of this case also show that there was no sufficient cause whatsoever to condone such a long delay. the impugned judgment of the high court of delhi dated 15.10.2019 cannot be faulted on this score and this appeal is consequently dismissed.
68. appeals disposed of accordingly.
…………………..………………j.  B-CITATION (r. f. nariman) I-CITA B-CITATION (b.r. gavai) I-CITA B-CITATION (hrishikesh roy) I-CITATION  (b.r. gavai) ……………..……………………j. (hrishikesh roy) new delhi.
march 19, 2021.
