Take notes as you read a judgment using our Virtual Legal Assistant and get email alerts whenever a new judgment matches your query (Query Alert Service). Try out our Premium Member Services -- Sign up today and get free trial for one month.
Gujarat High Court
Reliance Healthcare Pvt Ltd vs Reliance Medipharma on 12 June, 2018
Bench: M.R. Shah, A.Y. Kogje
        C/AO/65/2018                                         CAV JUDGMENT



            IN THE HIGH COURT OF GUJARAT AT AHMEDABAD

                   R/APPEAL FROM ORDER NO.  65 of 2018
                                   With 
                      CIVIL APPLICATION NO. 1 of 2018
                                   With 
                   R/APPEAL FROM ORDER NO. 66 of 2018
 
FOR APPROVAL AND SIGNATURE: 
HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE M.R. SHAH                             Sd/­
and
HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE A.Y. KOGJE                            Sd/­
=========================================
1      Whether Reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see  No the judgment ?
2      To be referred to the Reporter or not ?                               No

3      Whether their Lordships wish to see the fair copy of the              No
       judgment ?

4      Whether this case involves a substantial question of law as           No
to the interpretation of the Constitution of India or any  order made thereunder ?
============================================= RELIANCE HEALTHCARE PVT LTD Versus RELIANCE MEDIPHARMA ============================================= Appearance:
MR.   KAMAL   TRIVEDI,   SENIOR   ADVOCATE   WITH   MR.PARTH  MR.   B.D.   KARIA,   ADVOCATE   WITH   MR   MRUGESH   JANI(1984)   for   the  RESPONDENT(s) No. 1,2,3 ============================================= CORAM: HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE M.R. SHAH and HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE A.Y. KOGJE  Date :  12/06/2018  CAV JUDGMENT   (PER : HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE M.R. SHAH) 1.0. As   common   question   of   law   and   facts   arise   in   both   these  Appeal   From   Orders,   they   are   decided   and   disposed   of   by   this  common judgment and order. 
2.0. Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned order  passed by the learned Judge, Commercial Court, Vadodara dated  13.03.2017   passed   below   Exh.5   in   Commercial   Trade   Mark   Suit  No. 2 of 2017, by which, the learned Judge has rejected the said  application below Exh.5 and has refused to grant the injunction as  prayed, the original plaintiff ­ Reliance Healthcare Private Limited  has preferred present Appeal From Order No. 65 of 2018. 
2.1. Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned order  passed by the learned Judge, Commercial Court, Vadodara dated  13.03.2017   passed   below   Exh.5   in   Commercial   Trade   Mark   Suit  No. 3 of 2017, by which, the learned Judge has rejected the said  application below Exh.5 and has refused to grant the injunction as  prayed   in   the   suit   against   the   original   defendants,   the   original  plaintiff   ­   Reliance   Formulation   Private   Limited   has   preferred  present Appeal From Order No. 66 of 2018.
3.0. At   the   outset,   it   is   required   to   be   noted   that   as   such   the  defendants are common in both the aforesaid Trade Mark Suits and  the   original   plaintiffs   seem  to  be   sister  concern.   For   the   sake   of  convenience, Appeal From Order No. 65 of 2018 is considered and  treated as a lead matter and facts in Appeal From Order No. 65 of  2018 arising out of Commercial Trade Mark Suit No. 2 of 2017 are  narrated, which are as under: 
4.0. That the appellant ­ original plaintiff (hereinafter referred to  as the "Plaintiff") had instituted the Commercial Trade Mark Suit  No. 2 of 2017 against the respondents herein ­ original defendants  (hereinafter referred to as the "defendants") for seeking injunction  against   the   infringement,   passing­off   and   damages   from   the  defendants. It was the case on behalf of the plaintiff and so averred  in the plaint / suit that the plaintiff is a manufacturer and merchant  in pharmaceutical products and all their goods / products are being  sold under the trade name / trading style/ trademark "RELIANCE"  along with the "RX­RELIANCE" logo.   It is the case on behalf of the  plaintiff that the word "RELIANCE" was originally coined, invented,  adopted and used by the plaintiff's predecessor in title viz. Reliance  Pharmaceuticals,   partnership   firm   of   Mr.   Keshavlal   Hiralal   Patel,  Mr. Virendra Babulal Sanghvi and Mr. Balmukund Shah. That the  said trade name/ trade mark RELIANCE  along with the "RELIANCE  Rx"   logo   was   registered   in   the   name   of   M/s.   Reliance  Pharmaceuticals bearing Trade Mark No.399188 and the said trade  name   /   trade   mark   "RELIANCE"   along   with   "RELIANCE   Rx"   was  subsequently transferred to the plaintiff pursuant to an Indenture  of   Assignment   dated   1.10.1986   executed   between   Reliance  Pharmaceuticals and the plaintiff and now stands registered in the  name of the plaintiff and continues to remain valid and subsisting  as on date. It is the case on behalf of the plaintiff that the plaintiff  manufacturers   and   sells   various   pharmaceutical   products,   like  Protoril, Relihist, Relitone, Relizyme and Tules, across India under  brand names viz. Reliance with the "Rx RELIANCE" logo, of which  the plaintiff is the registered proprietor. It was further the case of  the plaintiff that plaintiff is using the said trade name / trade mark  'RELIANCE" along with the "RELIANCE Rx" logo for manufacturing  and marketing of its pharmaceutical and medicinal preparations in  India   since   year   1986   and   the   pharmaceutical   goods   which   are  manufactured   and   marketed   under   the   name   "RELIANCE'   are  known as the products from the plaintiff especially in trade circles  and consuming public. It was also the case on behalf of the plaintiff  that the word "RELIANCE" has great significance and importance  for   them   because   the   word   "RELIANCE"   has   acquired   high  popularity and goodwill in the trade and in the consuming public  since the last three decades. It was also further averred that the  plaintiff   is   known   through   the   word   "RELIANCE"   and   the   work  'RELIANCE"   is   denoted   and   connoted   to   the   plaintiff   and   their  business and the plaintiff has statutory right to the exclusive use of  aforesaid registered trademarks in connection with pharmaceutical  and medicinal preparations in view of the fact that the  plaintiff is  the   registered   proprietor   as   well   as   prior   user   under   the   Trade  Marks Act, 1999 (hereinafter referred to as the "Act, 1999") and the  adoption of the trade name / trade mark 'RELIANCE" along with  the "RELIANCE Rx" logo by the plaintiff is honest, bonafide and as  such due to long, prior and continuous user and bonafide adoption,  proprietary rights have accrued in favour of the plaintiff. 
4.1. It was further averred in the plaint that original defendant  no.2 through its proprietorship concern M/s. Sanjivani Medico has  been   an   exclusive   distributor   and   agent   of   the   plaintiff   for   the  region of Maharashtra since 1988 however, the said distributorship  arrangement has been terminated by the plaintiff from 1.10.2014.  It   was   further   averred   that   the   original   defendant   no.3   was  appointed as a Director in the plaintiff company w.e.f. 17.08.1998  and continues as a Director even today. It was further stated that  original defendant no.2 along with defendant no.3 are also equity  shareholders     in   the   plaintiff.   It   was   the   case   on   behalf   of   the  plaintiff that the plaintiff has very recently come to know of the  setting up of the defendant no.1 as a sole proprietorship concern  and   they   are   engaging   in   marketing   and   manufacturing   of  pharmaceutical and medicinal goods under the name and style of  'RELIANCE"   along  with  "RELIANCE   Rx"   logo   and  are   selling   and  marketing   goods   and   products   with   brand   names   which   are  structurally, phonetically and visually identical with or deceptively  similar  to the registered trade marks of the plaintiff. It was also  further the case of the plaintiff that the plaintiff perceived in the  trade circles and by the consuming public, as being associated with  or agents of the plaintiff and the defendant no.1 is using the said  fact to piggy­back upon the goodwill and reputation of the plaintiff  to   pass­off   its   products   as   that   of   the   plaintiffs   and   infringe   the  trade   marks   of   the   plaintiff   and   passing   of   the   products   of   the  defendant no.1 as those of the plaintiff. It was further the case of  the plaintiff that the defendants are continuing with their illegal  use of the trade name 'RELIANCE" as well as the "Rx Reliance" logo  and tried to confuse and deceive the trade partners and consuming  by   adopting   a   similar   and   identical   trade   mark   as   that   of   the  plaintiff.   It   was   also   the   case   of   the   plaintiff   that   defendants   in  addition to infringing the   plaintiff's trade mark are also guilty of  passing   their   products   as   being   that   of   the   plaintiff.   With   the  aforesaid   averments,   the   plaintiff   has   instituted   aforesaid   Suit  before the learned Commercial Court, Vadodara and has prayed for  following reliefs:
"a.   that   the   defendants   by   itself   and/or   through   its   servants,   agents,   dealers,   manufactures,   directors,   partners,   owners,   proprietors,   licensees   and/or   otherwise howsoever be restrained by a perpetual order   and   injunction   of   this   Hon'ble   Court   from   in   any   manner   using,   in   relating   to   pharmaceutical   or   medicinal   products,   the   word/mark/label   RELIANCE   and/or   the   'RELIANCE   Rx'   logo,   and/or   any   other   word /  mark  /  label which  is identical  with and/or   deceptively   similar   in   any   manner   to   the   plaintiff's   registered   trademark   /   trade   name/   house   mark/   trading style RELIANCE and the RELIANCE Rx' logo or   'RELIANCE   Rx'   label,   so   as   to   infringe   the   plaintiff's   trademark bearing number 399188;
b.   that   the   defendants   by   itself   and/or   through   its   servants,   agents,   dealers,   manufactures,   directors,   partners,   owners,   proprietors,   licensees,   and/or   otherwise howsoever be restrained by perpetual order   and   injunction   of   this   Hon'ble   Court   from   in   any   manner   using,   in   relation   to   pharmaceutical   or   medicinal   products,   the   word   /   mark   /   label   RELIANCE   and/or   the   'RELIANCE   Rx/   logo,   and/or   any other word/ mark/ label, which is identical with   and/or   deceptively   similar   in   any   manner   to   the   plaintiff's   trademark/   trade   name/   house   mark/   trading style RELIANCE and the 'RELIANCE Rx' logo or   RELIANCE Rx' label, so as to pass­ff or enable others to   pass­off the defendants' impugned pharmaceutical and   medicinal products as and for that of the plaintiff;
c.   that   the   defendants   by   itself   and/or   through   its   servants,   agents,   dealers,   manufactures,   directors,   partners,   owners,   proprietors,   licensee   and/or   otherwise howsoever be restrained by a perpetual order   and   injunction   of   this   Hon'ble   Court   from   in   any   manner   using,   in   relation   to   pharmaceutical   or   medicinal   products,   word   /   marks   /   labels   /   trade   name   /   RELAINCE   or   any   other   words   /     marks   /   labels/   trade   name   which   is   identical   with   and/or   structurally, phonetically, visually, and/or deceptively   similar   to   the   words   /   marks/     labels   /trade   name  RELIANCE so as to pass­off or enable others to pass­off   the   defendants'   impugned   pharmaceutical   and   medicinal products as and for that of the plaintiff; d.   that   the   defendants   by   itself   and/or   through   its   servants,   agents,   dealers,   manufactures,   directors,   partners,   owners,   proprietors,   licensees   and/or   otherwise howsoever be restrained by a perpetual order   and   injunction   of   this   Hon'ble   Court   from   in   any   manner   using,   in   relation   to   pharmaceutical   or   medicinal   products,   word   /   marks   /   labels   /   trade   names Bromax Plus, or any other words /   marks /  labels/   trade   name   which   is   identical   with   and/or   structurally, phonetically, visually, and/or deceptively   similar   to   the   registered   trademark   Bromex   Plus   (application No. 1783924), so as to pass­off or enable   others   to   pass­off   the   defendants'   impugned   pharmaceutical and medicinal products as and for that   of the plaintiff;
e.   that   the   defendants   by   itself   and/or   through   its   servants,   agents,   dealers,   manufactures,   directors,   partners,   owners,   proprietors,   licensees   and/or   otherwise howsoever be restrained by a perpetual order   and   injunction   of   this   Hon'ble   Court   from   in   any   manner   using,   in   relation   to   pharmaceutical   or   medicinal   products,   word   /   marks   /   labels   /   trade   names Relizinc or any other words /  marks /  labels/   trade   name   which   is   identical   with   and/or   structurally, phonetically, visually, and/or deceptively   similar   to   the   registered   trademark   Reliziyme   (registration  no. No. 1609478), so as to infringe  or   enable others to infringe the said trademark.
f.   that   the   defendants   by   itself   and/or   through   its   servants,   agents,   dealers,   manufactures,   directors,   partners,   owners,   proprietors,   licensees   and/or   otherwise howsoever be restrained by a perpetual order   and   injunction   of   this   Hon'ble   Court   from   in   any   manner   using,   in   relation   to   pharmaceutical   or   medicinal   products,   words/   marks/   labels/   trade   names Relizinc or any other words /  marks /  labels /   trade   name   which   is   identical   with   and/or   structurally, phonetically, visually, and/or deceptively   similar   to   the   registered   trademark   Reliziyme   (registration   no.  No.  1609478),  so   as  to  pass­off  or   enable   others   to   pass­off   the   defendants'   impugned   pharmaceutical and medicinal products as and for that   of the plaintiff; 
g.   that   the   defendants   by   itself   and/or   through   its   servants,   agents,   dealers,   manufactures,   directors,   partners,   owners,   proprietors,   licensees   and/or   otherwise howsoever be restrained by a perpetual order   and   injunction   of   this   Hon'ble   Court   from   in   any   manner   using,   in   relation   to   pharmaceutical   or   medicinal   products,   words/   marks/   labels/   trade   names Proril or any other words /  marks /  labels /   trade   name   which   is   identical   with   and/or   structurally, phonetically, visually, and/or deceptively   similar   to   the   registered   trademark   Protoril   (registration  no. No. 1783927), so as to infringe  or   enable others to infringe the said trademark;
h.     that   the   defendants   by   itself   and/or   through   its   servants,   agents,   dealers,   manufactures,   directors,   partners,   owners,   proprietors,   licensees   and/or   otherwise howsoever be restrained by a perpetual order   and   injunction   of   this   Hon'ble   Court   from   in   any   manner   using,   in   relation   to   pharmaceutical   or   medicinal   products,   words/   marks/   labels/   trade   names Proril or any other words /  marks /  labels /   trade   name   which   is   identical   with   and/or   structurally, phonetically, visually, and/or deceptively   similar   to   the   registered   trademark   Protoril   (registration   no.  No.  1783927),  so   as  to  pass­off  or   enable   others   to   pass­off   the   defendants'   impugned   pharmaceutical and medicinal products as and for that   of the plaintiff; 
i.   that   the   defendants   by   itself   and/or   through   its   servants,   agents,   dealers,   manufactures,   directors,   partners,   owners,   proprietors,   licensees   and/or   otherwise howsoever be restrained by a perpetual order   and   injunction   of   this   Hon'ble   Court   from   in   any   manner   using   the   word   RELIANCE   in   its   corporate   name,   so   as   to   infringe   the   plaintiff's   registered   trademark/   trade   name/   house   work/   trading   style  RELIANCE;
j.   that   the   defendants   by   itself   and/or   through   its   servants,   agents,   dealers,   manufactures,   directors,   partners,   owners,   proprietors,   licensees   and/or   otherwise howsoever be restrained by a perpetual order   and   injunction   of   this   Hon'ble   Court   from   in   any   manner   using,   the   domain   name   www.reliancemedipharma.com;
k. that the defendants be ordered and decreed to pay to   the plaintiff a sum of Rs. 5,00,00,000/­ as and by way   of damages for infringement of trademarks, violation   of rights and passing off thereto or in the alternative   the defendants be ordered to render an account of the   profits made by them by the use of infringing plaintiff's   trade   name/   house   mark/   trademark   and   an   order   against   the   defendants   for   payment   of   such   amount   found due upon such account being taken;
l. that the defendant be ordered and decreed to delivery   up   to   the   plaintiff   for   destruction   all   the   impugned   goods/articles/things   used   by   the   defendants   containing the following words/marks/trade names /   labels, which infringe the registered trademarks of the   plaintiff  and  which are  structurally phonetically  and   deceptively similar to the registered trademarks of the   plaintiff;­
1. Bromax Plus
2. Relizinc
3. Proril "
4.2. That in the aforesaid suit, the plaintiff submitted an interim  injunction   application   below   Exh.5   to   the   effect   that   (1)   the  defendants   by   itself   or   through   its   servants,   agents,   dealers,  manufacturers, directors, partners, owners, proprietors, licensees or  otherwise   howsoever   be   restrain   by   a   temporary   order   and  injunction from in any manner using in relation to pharmaceutical  or medicinal products, the word, mark, label which is identical with  and   /   or   deceptively   similar   in   any   manner   to   the   plaintiffs  registered trade mark, trading style 'RELIANCE" and the "RELIANCE  Rx"  logo  or  "RELIANCE  Rx"  label  (2)  the  defendants by  itself or  through   its   servants,   agents,   dealers,   manufacturers,   directors,  partners, owners, proprietors, licensees or otherwise howsoever be  restrain by a temporary order and injunction from in any manner  using in relation to pharmaceutical or medicinal products which is  identical   and   /   or   structurally,   phonetically,   visually   and   /   or  deceptively   similar   to   the   registered   trade   mark   "Bromex   Plus",  "Relizyme", "Protoril" etc. so as to pass­off or enable others to pass­ off   the   defendants"   impugned   pharmaceutical   and   medicinal  products as and for that of the plaintiff and (3) the defendants by  itself   or   through   its   servants,   agents,   dealers,   manufactures,  directors,   partners,   owners,   proprietors,   licensees   or   otherwise  howsoever be restrain by a temporary order and injunction from in  any manner using the word "RELIANCE" in its Corporate name so  as to infringe the plaintiff's registered trade mark and trading style  'RELIANCE' and domain name www.reliancemedipharma.com. 
4.3. Having been served with the summons issued to the suit, the  defendants   appeared   through   their   counsel   and   submitted   their  reply   to   the   application   Exh.5   vide   Exh.17   opposing   the   interim  injunction application. It was the case on behalf of the defendants  that   it   is   not   in   dispute   that   the   word   "RELIANCE"   is   registered  trade mark having registration no. 355134­B in the name of three  persons   i.e.   Mr.   Keshavlal   Hiralal   Patel,   Mr.   Virendra   Babulal  Sanghvi and Mr. Balmukund Kantilal Shah who were partners of  the   Reliance   Pharmaceuticals   at   the   relevant   time   and   logo  'RELIANCE Rx" was unregistered trade mark in the year 1986 and  the same was registered in the name of the above three persons  who were partners of the Reliance Pharmaceuticals by the Trade  Mark Registry in February, 1991 being registration no. 399188­B  but   certificate   of  registration   in   respect   of  the  word   "RELIANCE"  having   registered   trade   mark   No.355134­B   is   not   produced   on  record by the plaintiff. It was contended that the plaintiff has not  produced any certificate of registration in the name of the plaintiff  and has made misleading averments in the memo of the plaint as  well   as   in   the   application   for   interim   injunction   giving   an  impression that there is only one registered No. 399188 for both  the words "RELIANCE" or "RELIANCE Rx" logo. 
4.4. It was also further contended on behalf of the defendants that  plaintiff is neither registered proprietor nor registered user of the  trade   mark   "RELIANCE"   along   with   logo   "RELIANCE   Rx"   for  manufacturing   and   marketing   of   pharmaceutical   and   medicinal  preparations in India. It was further contended that the plaintiff has  made false statement that the plaintiff is a registered proprietor as  well as prior user under the Act, 1999 and it has a statutory right to  the   exclusive   use   of   trade   mark   "RELIANCE"   along   with   logo  'RELIANCE Rx". 
4.5. It was further contended on behalf of the defendants that the  defendants   have   started   to   manufacture   different   products   since  2011   and   have   obtained   the   drug   license   from   the   competent  authority   for   manufacturing   and   marketing   its   products.   It   was  further   contended   that   the   products   which   the   plaintiff   is  manufacturing   are   never   manufactured   by   the   defendant   no.1  company and the plaintiff is aware about the fact of manufacturing  different products  by the defendants since the year 2011. It was  further contended that   the   products which have been named by  the plaintiff are all pharmaceuticals products and the said products  fall   in   Schedule­   H   which   is  a  schedule   of  drugs   that   cannot   be  obtained without prescription of the doctor, therefore, the essential  test of infringement or passing off that the layman will get confused  will fail in products mentioned by the plaintiff as the said drugs are  prescribed by the expert. 
4.6. That the plaintiff also filed rejoinder to the reply filed by the  defendant against the application for interim injunction.
4.7. That initially the learned Commercial Court issued notice on  the   defendants   making   it   returnable   on   27.02.2017.   That  thereafter,   after   hearing   the   learned   counsel   for   the   respective  parties  and considering the material on record,  vide order  dated  17.03.2017,   the   learned   Judge   Commercial   Court,   Vadodara  allowed   the   application   Exh.5   partly   by   granting   injunction  restraining   the   defendants   by   itself,   its   servant,   agents,   dealers,  manufacturers, directors, partners, owners, proprietors etc. to use  the Trade Mark and Trading Style "RELIANCE' and the 'RELIANCE  Rx   M'   logo   or   'RELIANCE   Rx   M'   label   in   respect   of   the   drug  products.   The   learned   Judge   also   granted   interim   injunction  restraining   the   defendants   by   itself,   its   servant,   agents,   dealers,  manufacturers,   directors,   partners,   owners,   proprietors,   licensee  etc. from passing off any drug products under the name and style of  'RELIANCE" or 'RELIANCE Rx M" logo or label. 
4.8. That feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the order passed  by the learned Judge, Commercial Court, Vadodara passed below  Exh.   5   dated   17.03.2017,   by   which,   the   learned   Judge   partly  allowed the said application Exh.5 and granted injunction as stated  above, the original defendant preferred Appeal From Order No. 137  of   2017   before   this   Court.   That   with  the   consent   of  the   learned  advocates   for   the   respective   parties,   the   Division   Bench   of   this  Court vide order dated 20.02.2018 allowed the said appeal along  with  another Appeal From  Order  and  quashed  and  set  aside the  order passed by the learned trial Court passed below Exh. 5 and  remanded the matter to the Commercial Court, Vadodara to decide  and dispose of the application Exh.5 afresh and in accordance with  law   and   on   merits.   While   remanding   the   matter,   the   learned  Commercial   Court   to   decide   the   application   Exh.5   afresh,   the  Division   Bench   directed   the   injunction   granted   vide   order   dated  17.03.2017   passed   below   Exh.5   (in   fact   which   was   as  such   was  quashed and set aside) to continue till 15.03.2018 and the learned  Commercial   Court   was   directed   to   decide   and   dispose   of   the  application Exh.5 afresh on or before 15.03.2018. 
4.9. That   thereafter   on   remand   the   learned   Judge,   Commercial  Court, Vadodara has rejected the application Exh. 5 by observing  that (1) The word "Reliance" is a  common noun and generic word  and  plaintiff   has   no   exclusiveness  over   the   said   word;   there   are  several companies registered with the name "Reliance";   (2) The  word "Reliance" is Brand name of Ambanis and the plaintiff itself is  taking   the   benefit   of   the   reputation   and   goodwill   and   Ambanis'  "Reliance" therefore, when the plaintiff is exploiting the goodwill of  other's   Brand   name,   it   cannot   claim   the   injunction   against   the  defendant; (3) The Reliance Medipharma of Komal R Patel has not  been   impleaded   in   the   present   proceeding   therefore,   injunction  cannot  be  granted  against  the  Reliance  Medipharma  of Komal  R  Patel. The Reliance Medipharma of Raunak G Patel is carrying on  business at Nashik and further the defendants are also residing and  carrying   on   business   at   Nashik,   thus,   the   injunction   cannot   be  granted   against   the   Reliance   Medipharma,   Vadodara,   a  proprietorship concerned of Komal R Patel. 
4.10. Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned order  dated 13.03.2018 passed by the learned Judge, Commercial Court,  Vadodara passed below Exh.5 in Commercial Trade Mark Suit No.  2   of   2017,   by   which,   the   learned   Judge   has   rejected   the   said  application Exh.5 and has refused to grant the injunction as prayed  in the application below Exh.5 against the defendants, the original  plaintiff  has  preferred  the present  Appeal  From  Order  No.  65  of  2018. 
Similar   order   has   been   passed   by   the   learned   Judge,  Commercial Court passed below Exh.5 in Commercial Trade Mark  Suit No. 3 of 2017, which is subject matter of Appeal From Order  No. 66 of 2018. 
5.0. Shri   Kamal   Trivedi,   learned   Senior   Advocate   has   appeared  with   Shri   Parth   Contractor,   learned   advocate   for   the   respective  appellants     and   Shri   B.D.Karia,   learned   advocate   appeared   with  Shri Mrugesh Jani, learned advocate for the respondents­ original  defendants. 
6.0. Shri Trivedi, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of  the   plaintiff   has   vehemently   submitted   that   in   the   facts   and  circumstances   of   the   case,   the   learned   Commercial   Court   has  materially erred in rejecting the application Exh.5 and refusing to  grant injunction as prayed for against the defendants.
6.1. Shri Trivedi learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of  the plaintiff has submitted that the learned Judge has not properly  appreciated   the   fact   that   as   such   the   appellant   is   a   registered  proprietor and has a statutory exclusive right to use the registered  trade­marks "Reliance" and "Reliance Rx" Logo. It is submitted that  the trademarks ""Reliance" and "Reliance Rx" Logo are registered in  the name of the appellant and therefore, is Registered Proprietor of  the aforesaid trade­marks in terms of Section 2(1)(v) of the Trade  ­Marks Act, 1999. It is submitted that Section 28 of the Act, 1999 as  far as exclusive right to use the registered trade­mark conferred by  upon the registered proprietor. It is submitted that therefore, the  act on the part of the defendants can be said to be infringement of  the aforesaid registered trade­mark considering Section 29 of the  Act, 1999. It is submitted that as per Section 31 of the Act, 1999,  registration to be prima facie evidence of validity. 
6.2. It   is   submitted   that   once   the   trade­mark   is   registered   in  favour   of   the   appellant,   the   validity   or   otherwise   of   such  registration   cannot   be   considered   in   the   proceedings   seeking  temporary   injunction.   In   support   of   his   above   submission,   Shri  Trivedi, learned Senior Advocate for the appellant has relied upon  the decision of the Bombay High Court in the case of Hindustan  Embroidery Mills Pvt Ltd vs. K Ravindra & Co reported in 76 BLR 
146.  6.3. It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Trivedi,   learned   Senior  Advocate   for   the   appellant   ­   original   plaintiff   that   original  defendant no.1 has been incorporated in the year 2011. However,  its activities of selling and marketing pharmaceutical products in  the   name   and   style   'RELIANCE"   with   brand   names   visually,  phonetically and structurally similar to that of the appellant, has  effectively began sometime around 2014 i.e. after the cancellation  of the distributorship arrangement. It is submitted that defendants  are selling and marketing pharmaceutical products under the brand  name "RELIANCE", which is structurally, phonetically and visually  similar to the registered trade­ mark of the plaintiff, "RELIANCE"  along with the "Rx" logo. It is submitted that various other products  of the defendant no.1 have names which are deceptively similar to  the   brand   names   of   the   plaintiff.   It   is   submitted   that   therefore,  passing   off   action   qua   the   use   of   the   word­mark   "RELIANCE"  (355134) and "Reliance with Rx Logo" (399188) by the defendants  is maintainable and the plaintiff is entitled to injunction against the  defendants for passing off action also. 
6.4.   It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Trivedi,   learned   Senior  Advocate for the appellant ­ original plaintiff that considering the  background of the defendants, the plaintiff is prior user and the use  in same Class 5, capable of causing confusion, coupled with the use  of products with names identical to that of the products sold by the  plaintiff,   the   plaintiff   is   entitled   to   injunction   as   prayed   for.   In  support of his above submission, learned counsel for the plaintiff  has relied upon the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the  case   of   Cadila   Healthcare   Ltd   vs.   Cadila   Pharmaceuticals   Ltd  reported in (2005) 5 SCC 73.
6.5.   It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Trivedi,   learned   Senior  Advocate for the appellant ­ original plaintiff that as adoption of  trade   name   "Reliance"   and   "Reliance   Rx"   logo   by   defendants   is  identical to the trade name of the plaintiff and both are engaged in  the   same   business   and   that   the   defendant   no.2   was   earlier   an  employee of the plaintiff and it will cause deception and confusion  in the minds of the customers which is actionable for passing off,  the     plaintiff   is   entitled   to   injunction   as   prayed   for.   For   the  aforesaid, Shri Trivedi, learned counsel for the original plaintiff has  heavily relied upon the followings decisions:
(1). Bhagwan Dass Gupta vs. Shir Shanker Tirath Yatra Company  Prviate Ltd reported in 2001 59 DRJ 609.
(2). FMI Limited vs. Asho Jain and Ors reported in MIPR 2007 (1) 
157.
(3). Neev   Investment   and   Trading   Pvt   Ltd   vs.   Sasia   Express  Couriers Pvt Ltd reported in 1993 26 DRJ.
(4). Vashist   Food   Pvt   Ltd   vs.   Vashisth  Agrotech   Private   Limited  reported in ILR 2004 (I) Delhi 434  (5). Sanofi India Ltd vs. Universal Neutraceuticals Ltd reported in  MIPR 2014(3) 0183.
(6). Mandev Tubes Pvt Ltd vs. Kalpesh Jain and Ors reported in  Manu/MH/2629/2016. 
6.6. It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Trivedi,   learned   Senior  Advocate for the appellant ­ original plaintiff that the learned Judge  has   erroneously   refused   the   injunction   on   the   premise   that   the  word "Reliance" is a generic word. It is submitted that assuming  that the word­mark "Reliance" is a generic and descriptive word,  where the same is registered and is used over a period of time, then  by virtue of its registration and extensive use by the plaintiff for  selling its pharmaceutical products, the said registered marks are  associated   with   the   plaintiff   and   attains   a   secondary   meaning  ascribed   to   the   plaintiff.   It   is   submitted   that   therefore,   any   use  other   than   by   the   registered   proprietor,   more   particularly,   a  dishonest use, ought not to have been permitted. It is submitted  that Section 28 of the Act, 1999 clearly grants exclusive use of the  word­mark "RELIANCE" to the plaintiff and the validity of the said  registration cannot be considered in the present proceedings. 
6.7. It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Trivedi,   learned   Senior  Advocate for the appellant ­ original plaintiff that the defendants  whose   adoption   of   the   trade­marks   is   not   bona   fide,   cannot   be  permitted   to   use   such   trade   marks,   more   so   when   the     persons  infringing the trade marks were erstwhile distributors (from 1985  to 2014) and directors (upto 2017) and present shareholders in the  plaintiff. In support of his above submissions, Shri Trivedi, learned  Senior   Advocate   for   the   plaintiff   has   heavily   relied   upon   the  following judgments: 
(1). T.V. Venugopal vs. Ushodaya Enterprise Ltd & Anr reported  in (2011) 4 SCC 85.
(2). Prakash Roadline Ltd vs. Prakash Parcel Service Ltd reported  in 1992 (22) DRJ 489.
(3). Montari Industries Ltd vs. Montari Overseas Ltd reported in  1995(33) DRJ 271.
6.8. It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Trivedi,   learned   Senior  Advocate for the appellant ­ original plaintiff that the learned Judge  has materially erred in refusing the injunction on the ground that  "Reliance" Medipharma of Komal R Patel has not been impleaded in  the present proceedings.  It  is  submitted  that  as such there  is no  document produced on record to substantiate the averments of the  defendants   that   Komal   Patel   is   the   proprietor   of   Reliance  Medipharama in Vadodara. It is submitted that  the only document  sought to be relied upon is an FDCA License. It is submitted that  firstly the said document has no relevance and that same is issued  in the name of "Reliance Medipharma" and not in the name of the  Reliance Medipharma. It is submitted that neither in the affidavit in  reply to the Exh.5 application nor at the time of hearing before this  Court in earlier round of litigation being Appeal From Order Nos.  137 and 138 of 2017, the aforesaid arguments were canvassed by  the defendants. It is submitted that such argument is mala fide and  is an afterthought to mislead this Court. It is submitted that Komal  R   Patel   is   the   daughter  of  defendant   nos.  2   and  3  and  sister  of  defendant no.1. 
6.9. It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Trivedi,   learned   Senior  Advocate for the appellant ­ original plaintiff that even otherwise  the   impugned   order   dated   13.03.2018   rejecting   the   application  Exh.5 is contrary to the earlier order dated 17.03.2017 passed by  the learned Judge inasmuch as there are no changed circumstances  and only the change is that the plaintiff has obtained a legal use  certificate   in   relation   to   the   aforesaid   trade­mark   and   that   the  Trade­Mark   No.   355134   is   now   registered   in   the   name   of   the  plaintiff.   It   is   submitted   that   as   such   findings   recorded   by   the  learned Judge now while rejecting the application Exh.5 are just  contrary to the findings and / or observations made while passing  the earlier order dated 17.03.2018.
Making   above   submission   and   relying   upon     the   following  decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court, it is requested to allow the  present   Appeal   From   Orders   and   to   quash   and   set   aside   the  impugned   order   passed   below   Exh.5   by   the   learned   Commercial  Court and grant the injunction as prayed for. 
(1). Heinz Italia & Ors vs. Dabur India Ltd reported in (2007) 6  SCC 1.
(2). Midas   Hygiene   Industries   Pvt   Ltd   vs.   Sudhir   Bhatia   &   Ors  reported in (2004) 3 SCC 90.
(3). Laxmikant V Patel vs. Chetanbhai Shah and Anr reported in  (2002) 3 SCC 65. 
(4). Satyam   Infoway   Ltd   vs.   Siffynet   Solution   Ltd   reported   in  (2004) 6 SCC 145.
(5). Mahendra and Mahendra Paper Mills Ltd vs. Mahindra and  Mahindra Ltd reported in (2002) 2 SCC 147. 
(6).  Prakash   Roadline   Ltd   vs.   Prakash   Parcel   Service   (P)   Ltd  reported in 1992(2) Arbitration Law Reporter 174 (7). Himalaya   Drug   Company   vs.   SBL   Limited   reported   in  2013(53) PTC 1 (Del)  (8). Banana   Brand   Works   Pvt   Ltd   vs.   Kavan   Antani   and   Ors  reported in 2016(4) CTC 647.   
7.0. Both   these   appeals   are   vehemently   opposed   by   Shri   B.D.  Karia,   learned   advocate   appearing   on   behalf   of   the   original  defendants. 
7.1. It is further submitted by Shri Karia, learned advocate for the  original defendants that in the facts and circumstances of the case  and more particularly, the trade name "Reliance" is a common word  /  generic  word  and by  registering such trade  name,  the  original  plaintiff   cannot   have   any   monopoly,   the   learned   Judge,  Commercial Court has rightly refused to grant injunction against  the   defendants   restraining   the   defendants   from   using   the   word  trade name / trade­mark "Reliance". 
7.2.      It is further submitted by Shri Karia, learned advocate for  the   original   defendants  that   as  such   the   learned   counsel   for   the  plaintiff made categorical statement before the Commercial Court  that   plaintiff   is   not   pressing   injunction   in   respect   of   goods   and  products and / or pressing injunction on the ground of passing off  of the goods under the name of plaintiff and / or name and trade­ mark similarly deceptive of the plaintiff and is mainly concerned  with the use of the word "Reliance" logo and "Reliance Rx". It is  submitted  that  therefore,   the  learned Judge   has  rightly   observed  that   plea   of   injunction   regarding   passing   off  the   products   is  not  required   to   be   considered   and   gone   into   by   the   Court.   It   is  submitted that thereafter when the learned Judge has found that  the word "Reliance" is a common  and generic word,  the learned  Judge has rightly refused to grant the injunction. 
7.3.  It is further submitted by Shri Karia, learned advocate for the  original defendants that mark "Reliance" was originally registered  in   Part   B   of   the   Trade   and   Merchandise   Mark   Act,   1958   in   the  name of Keshavlal Hiralal Patel and two others, being partners of  M/s. Reliance Pharmaceuticals at the relevant time. It is submitted  that it is meant that the said word of device is not a coined word  and   it   is   the   label   as   "Device".   It   is   submitted   that   therefore,  accordingly   the word mark "Reliance" is a common word and is  also   generic   word   having   dictionary   meaning   "the   state   of  depending on or trusting in something or someone. It is submitted  that therefore, when the said mark is neither invented nor attached  with any formula or product of the plaintiff, mere utilization of the  word "Reliance" as a trade name of the drug products shall not give  exclusive right in favour of the plaintiff in a paramount way. It is  further submitted that the work "Reliance"  is a common name and  there   are   199   companies   or   firms   registered   with   the   word  "Reliance" at the initial name of the Companies; out of   which 3  companies are operating in the field of Pharma. It is submitted that  therefore, in the facts and circumstances of the case the learned  Judge   has   rightly   refused   to   grant   injunction   restraining   the  defendants from using the word mark "Reliance".
7.4. Shri Karia, learned advocate for the original defendants has  stated at the bar that defendants shall not use logo "Reliance Rx.M" 
or "Reliance Rs M label" in respect of drug products. He has stated  at the bar that therefore, the defendants have no objection if the  impugned order passed by the learned Judge, Commercial Court is  modified to the aforesaid extent and the injunction refused may be  restricted to word mark "Reliance".
Making   above   submissions   and   relying   upon   the   following  decisions,   it   is   requested   to   dismiss   the   present   appeals   with  modification as stated hereinabove. 
(1).   Aviat Chemicals Pvt. Ltd Vs. Intas Pharmaceuticals Limited  reported in 2001 Lawsuit (Del) 881.
(2). Apex Laboratories Ltd vs. Zuventus Health Care Ltd reported  in (200&0 1 MLJ 657.
(3). IHHR Hospitality Pvt Ltd vs. Bestech India Pvt Ltd reported in  LAWS (DLH) 2012 5 193.
(4). Three   ­N­Products   Private   Limited   vs.   Emami   Limited  rendered in APO No.248 of 2008 in CA No. 204 of 2007 of the  Calcutta High Court. 
(5). Chandra Bhan Agarwal and Anr vs. Arjundas Agarwal and ors  reported in AIR 1979 Cal 2080.
(6). Nirma   Chemical   Works   Pvt   Ltd   vs.   Nirman   High   School  reported in 2011 (5) GLR 3944.
(7). J R Kapoor vs. Mirconix India reported in 1994(14) PTC 260  (SC).
(8). Schering Corporation and Ors vs. Getwell Life Sciences India  Pvt Ltd reported in 2008(37) PTC 487 (Del).
(9). Datamatics   Global   Services   Limited   vs.   Royal   Datamatics  Private Limited reported in 2016(3) ABR 514.
(10). Orchid   Chemicals   &   Pharmaceuticals   Ltd   vs.   Wockhardt  Limited reported in 2013(3) CTC 841.
(11). Cadila Healthcare Ltd vs. Speciality Meditech Private Limited  reported in 2010 (5) GLR 3742.
(12). Shaw Wallace & Co Ltd & Anr vs. Superior Industries Limited  reported in 2007(35) PTC 782 (Del).
(13). Cadila   Health   Care   Ltd   vs.   Cadila   Pharmaceuticals   Ltd  reported in (2001) 5 SCC 73.
(14). Cadila   Healthcare   Ltd   vs.   Swiss   Pharma   Pvt   Ltd   and   Anr  reported in 2002 GLH (1) 234. 
8.0. Heard the learned counsel for the respective parties at length.  Perused   the   impugned   order   passed   by   the   learned   Judge,  Commercial   Court,   Vadodara   passed   below   Exh.5   in   respective  Commercial Trade Marks Suits.
8.1. At   the   outset,   it   is   required   to   be   noted   that   though   the  respective   suits   filed   by   the   original   plaintiffs   were   for   seeking  injunction against the   infringement, passing off, infringement of  trade   name   /   word   mark   "Reliance"   and   logo   "Reliance   Rx",   a  categorical statement was made by the learned counsel appearing  on   behalf   of   the   plaintiff   before   the   learned   Judge,   Commercial  Court that he does not press the injunction in respect of the goods  and  products   on   the   ground   of   passing  off   the   goods   under   the  name of plaintiff and / or name and trade­mark similarly deceptive  of the plaintiff and is mainly concerned with the use of the word  "Reliance" logo and "Reliance Rx". Therefore, the learned Judge did  not consider the plea of injunction regarding passing off goods and  products   and   has   considered   whether   on   the   basis   of   registered  trade   mark   /   trade   name   /   word   name   "Reliance"   and   the   logo  "Reliance Rx" the plaintiff is entitled to injunction on the ground of  infringement of trade name / work name "Reliance" ? At this stage,  it is required to be noted that in Ground "G" in the appeal memo, it  is   stated   that   as   such   no   such   concession   was   made   before   the  learned Judge and on the contrary what was submitted was, that  for the time being, the appellant ­ original plaintiff was restricting  the   arguments   to   Trade­mark   No.   399188   and   355134   and  it   is  further the case on behalf of the appellant so stated in ground "G"  that submissions qua the products was not being canvassed in view  of the fact that the same was already considered by the learned  Judge at the time of passing of the order dated 17.03.2017 and that  the appellant ­ original plaintiff would rely upon same. So far as  aforesaid ground is concerned, at the outset, it is required to be  noted that as such learned trial Court has categorically stated in  para 25 as under: 
"As far as the plea of Ld. Counsel for the plaintiff regarding   the passing off of the goods under the name of the plaintiff   or   the   name   and   trade   mark   similarly   deceptive   to   the   plaintiff is concerned, the Ld. Counsel for the plaintiff Mr.   P.J. Contractor has made the statement before the Court at  Bar that he is not pressing the injunction in respect of the   goods and products and is he mainly concerned with the use   of the word "Reliance" and the logo "Rx Reliance". Thus, in   view of this submission, the plea of injunction regarding the   passing off of the products is not required to be considered   by the Court."
If the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the plaintiff was  of the opinion that what is recorded herein above is inaccurate, in  that case, the appropriate remedy available to the plaintiff was to  file   review   application   before   the   learned   Judge   who   made  aforesaid observations. Even otherwise, it is stated in ground "G"  that "what was submitted was  for the time being, the appellant ­  original plaintiff was restricting the arguments to Trade­mark No.  399188   and   355134.   It   is   further   stated   in   ground   G   that  submissions qua the products was not being canvassed in view of  the fact that the same was already considered by the learned Judge  at the time of passing of the order dated 17.03.2017 and that the  appellant ­ original plaintiff would rely upon same. However, it is  required   to   be   noted   that   as   such   order   dated   17.03.2017   was  already quashed and set aside earlier by this Court and the matter  was   remanded   to   the   learned   Commercial   Court   for   deciding  application Exh.5 afresh and therefore, as such there was no reason  for the learned counsel for the plaintiff to rely upon the order dated  17.03.2017.   It   is   required   to   be   noted   that   even   otherwise   the  learned   Judge   has   passed   the   impugned   order   solely   on   the  submission with respect to the infringement of  trade mark / trade  name / word name "Reliance" and logo "Reliance Rx". Therefore,  this  Court  is  required  to    consider whether the learned  Judge  is  right in refusing to grant injunction on the ground of infringement  of registered trade mark / trade name / word name "Reliance". At  the cost of repetition, it is observed that as such learned advocate  for   the   defendant     has   made   a   categorical   statement   that  defendants shall not use logo "Reliance Rx.M" or "Reliance Rx. M" 
Label     with   respect   to   pharmaceutical   and   drug   products.  Therefore, this Court is required to consider whether the plaintiff is  entitled   to   injunction   against   the   defendants   restraining   the  defendants, their agents and servants from using the word mark  "Reliance" (Registration No. 355134) only. 
8.2. It   is   the   case   on   behalf   of   the   plaintiff   that   in   terms   of  provisions of Section 2(1)of the Trade Mark Act, 1999 r/w Section  28   of   the   Act,   the   appellant   ­   original   plaintiff   has   a   statutory  protection   available   against   the   use   of  the   aforesaid   trade­marks  "Reliance" by third parties. However, the question which is required  to be considered is whether a person who has got the word name  registered which is generic and / or common, can such person have  monopoly to use such generic word, solely on getting such generic  word   registered   ?   The   learned   Judge   has   refused   the   injunction  mainly on the ground that word name "Reliance" is a generic word  and   common   in   usage   and   that   approximately   more   than   199  companies are using the word "Reliance" as their first name, out of  which   even   three   companies   are   dealing   in   pharmaceutical   and  therefore,   the   plaintiff   cannot   claim   an   exclusive   right   to   use   of  "Reliance" as a constitute of any trade mark. It is cardinal principle  of   law   and   even   as   per   the   catena   of   decisions   of   the   Hon'ble  Supreme Court as well as this Court nobody can claim exclusive  right to use a name which is generic and it  is publici juris. As per  the   dictionary   meaning   of   "Reliance",   it   means   "the   state   of  depending on or trusting in something or someone". Thus, the word  mark "Reliance" is a common word and is also generic word having  dictionary meaning as observed herein above.  Since "Reliance" is  deceptive of the words "to rely" use for production of many other  goods which daily come to the market, no one can claim monopoly  over the use of the said word. Therefore, to allow the plaintiff to  obtain proprietary right for the "Reliance" will,  in effect, amount to  recognizing   the   word   "Reliance"   to   be   exclusive   property   of   the  plaintiff. The word "Reliance" cannot be said to be in any manner a  coined   word   and   that   too   with  respect   to   particular   product.   As  such the word "Reliance" can be said to be "Device" and being used  in a common parlance and being generic word, the plaintiff alone  cannot have monopoly to use the word "Reliance" solely on getting  the   word   "Reliance"   registered.   As   observed   herein   above,   the  plaintiff has claimed injunction on the ground of infringement of  their registered trade mark / trade name,  a word name "Reliance". 
8.3 The submission on behalf of the plaintiff relying upon Section  2(1)(v)   r/w   Section   28   is   to   be   considered   while   reading   along  with   Section   17(2)   of   the   Act,   1999.   As   per   sub­section(2)   of  Section 17 notwithstanding anything contained in sub­section(1),  when a trade mark contains any matter which is common to the  trade or is otherwise of a non­distinctive character, the registration  thereof shall not confer any exclusive right in the matter forming  only a part of the whole of the trade mark so registered. Therefore,  as such the learned Judge has rightly refused to grant injunction  restraining the defendants from using the name "Reliance" which  was claimed by the plaintiff solely on the ground that the plaintiff  has   got   the   word  name   "Reliance"  registered  and  on   the  ground  that the defendants are infringing the said trade mark / trade name  /   word   name.   At   the   cost   of   repetition,   it   is   observed   that   the  learned trial Court has not at all considered the grant of injunction  on the alleged passing off action and as observed herein above, the  learned   trial   Court   has   specifically   observed   that   the   learned  advocate   for   the   plaintiff   does   not   press   the   injunction   on   the  ground of passing off. Therefore, we have restricted our order with  respect to alleged infringement of the word mark "Reliance" and /  or   question   with   respect   to   the   injunction   on   the   ground   that  whether   the   plaintiff   has   an   exclusive   right   to   use   the   word  "Reliance" on getting the word name "Reliance" registered in their  favour. As observed herein above, we are of the opinion that the  word name "Reliance" is a generic and common word and is not a  coined word and / or the word used for   a particular project, the  plaintiff   is   not   entitled   to   injunction   as  prayed   for   solely   on   the  ground  that  plaintiff  has got  word  name  "Reliance"  registered in  their favour. 
9.0. Now,   so   far   as   reliance   placed   upon   the   decision   of   the  Hon'ble   Supreme   Court   in   the   case   of   T.V.   Venugopal   (supra);  Satyam   Infoway Ltd (supra) and Mahendra and Mahendra Paper  Milss Ltd (supra) by the learned counsel on behalf of the plaintiff  are concerned, on considering the said decisions and controversy in  the said cases, we are of the opinion that the said decisions shall  not be applicable to the facts of the case on hand and / or same  shall not be of any assistance to the plaintiff, as in all the cases the  observation made by the Hon'ble Supreme Court are with respect to  the passing off and not infringement of trade mark / trade name /  word name, which as such is a common and generic word. In the  case of T.V. Venugopal (supra), it was found that the respondent  company   was   publishing   newspaper   "Eenadu"   in   the   Telugu  language   and   also   provided   TV   Service   under   the   brand   name  "ETV" or "Eenadu TV" in the State of Andhra Pradesh.  It was found  that though "Eenadu" was a descriptive word,  meaning "today" in  Telugu   Language   yet   it   had   acquired   secondary   or   subsidiary  meaning, by which products and services of respondent company  was   identified  and  therefore,   it   was  held  that   the   appellant   was  manufacturing   incense   sticks   in   neighboring   State   of   Karnataka,  selling his product with mark "Eenadu" added to it, it was found  that  appellant  was  passing  off his product  as that of  respondent  company and therefore, has to be restrained from doing so in so far  as Andhra Pradesh is concerned. 
10. Now,   so   far   as   similar   decision   in   the   case   of   Prakash  Roadline Ltd (supra) also shall not be applicable to the facts of the  case   on   hand   as   the   Delhi   High   Court   was   considering   the  injunction against the passing off.
11. It is required to be noted that as such the learned trial Court  has not accepted the submission on behalf of the defendants with  respect to territorial jurisdiction and as such defendants have not  preferred any appeal against the said findings. Therefore, we are  not   expressing   anything   on   merits   with   respect   to   territorial  jurisdiction  of the Commercial Court  to entertain the suit at this  stage and in the present proceedings. 
12. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above and on  the concession and considering the submission made by Shri Karia,  learned advocate for the original defendant that defendants shall  not use "Reliance Rx M" logo or "Reliance Rx M" label with respect  to pharmaceutical   products,   present  appeals are   allowed  in  part.  The   impugned   orders   passed   by   the   learned   Judge,   Commercial  Court   Vadodara   dated   13.03.2017   passed   below   Exh.5   in  Commercial   Trade   Mark   Suit   No.   2   of   2017   and   3   of   2017   are  hereby   modified   to   the   extent   restraining   the   defendants,   their  agents   and   servants   from   using   the   "Reliance   Rx   M"   logo   or  "Reliance Rx M" label with respect to pharmaceutical products. The  rest of the order passed by the learned Commercial Court refusing  to   grant   injunction   against   the   defendants   restraining   the  defendants   from   using   name   "Reliance"   are   hereby   confirmed.  Present   appeals   are   partly     allowed   to   the   aforesaid   extent.   No  costs.
In   view   of   order   passed   in   Appeal   From   Order   No.   65   of  2018,   Civil   Application   No.   1   of   2018   stands   disposed   of  accordingly.          
Sd/­ (M.R. SHAH, J)  Sd/­ (A.Y. KOGJE, J)  FURTHER ORDER After   the   judgment   was   pronounced,   learned   counsel  appearing on behalf of the appellant has requested to continue the  interim arrangement which was continued during the pendency of  the present appeals, so as to enable the appellant to approach the  Hon'ble   Supreme   Court.   The   prayer   is   opposed   by   the   learned  Advocate appearing for the respondents. However, considering the  fact   that   the   interim   relief   is   continued   till   date,   the   same   is  directed to be continued till 09.07.2018.
Sd/­ (M.R. SHAH, J)  Sd/­ (A.Y. KOGJE, J)  KAUSHIK J. RATHOD