Take notes as you read a judgment using our Virtual Legal Assistant and get email alerts whenever a new judgment matches your query (Query Alert Service). Try out our Premium Member Services -- Sign up today and get free trial for one month.
Gujarat High Court
Modipon Fibres Company vs Gujarat State Fertilizers And ... on 10 July, 2018
Equivalent citations: AIRONLINE 2018 GUJ 92
Bench: M.R. Shah, A.Y. Kogje
C/FA/1438/2017                                                        CAV JUDGMENT



    IN THE HIGH COURT OF GUJARAT AT AHMEDABAD
                       R/FIRST APPEAL NO.  1438 of 2017
                                     With 
                 R/SPECIAL CIVIL APPLICATION NO. 4764 of 2017
 
FOR APPROVAL AND SIGNATURE: 
 
HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE M.R. SHAH                                         Sd/­
and
HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE A.Y. KOGJE                                        Sd/­
=============================================
1      Whether Reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see  Yes the judgment ?
2      To be referred to the Reporter or not ?                           Yes

3      Whether their Lordships wish to see the fair copy of the          No
       judgment ?

4      Whether this case involves a substantial question of law as       No
to the interpretation of the Constitution of India or any  order made thereunder ?
============================================= MODIPON FIBRES COMPANY Versus GUJARAT STATE FERTILIZERS AND CHEMICALS LIMITED ============================================= Appearance:
MR DEVAN PARIKH, SR. ADVOCATE with MR MN MARFATIA(6930) for the PETITIONER(s)  No. 1,2 MR   KS   NANAVATI,   SR.   ADVOCATE   with   MR   KUNAL   VYAS   for   NANAVATI  ============================================= CORAM: HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE M.R. SHAH and HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE A.Y. KOGJE   Date : 10/07/2018 COMMON CAV JUDGMENT   (PER : HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE M.R. SHAH) [1.0] As   both   this   First   Appeal   and   Special   Civil   Application   are  interconnected, both this First Appeal and Special Civil Application are  decided and disposed of together by this common judgment and order.
[2.0] By way of this petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of  India   the   petitioner   herein   -   original   defendant   has   prayed   for   an  appropriate writ, direction and order to quash and set aside the order  dated   20.09.2016   passed   below   Exh.15   by   the   learned   Commercial  Court,   Vadodara   (hereinafter   referred   to   as   "learned   Commercial  Court")   in   Commercial   Civil   Suit   No.79/2016   by   which   the   learned  Commercial   Court   has   partly   allowed   the   said   application   and   has  granted   the   conditional   leave   to   the   petitioner   herein   -   original  defendant to defend the Commercial Suit No.79/2016 on deposit of Rs.5  Crores (against a total claim in the suit of Rs.22 Crores approximately). 
[2.1] As   the   order   passed   by   the   learned   Commercial   Court   below  Exh.15   was   not   complied   with   and   the   original   defendant   failed   to  deposit the amount as ordered while granting conditional leave i.e. Rs.5  Crores,   subsequently   on   non­compliance   of   the   order   passed   while  granting the conditional leave to defend the suit, thereafter the learned  Commercial Court has decreed the suit vide judgment and decree dated  20.12.2016, which is the subject matter of First Appeal No.1438/2017.
[3.0] The   facts   leading   to   the   present   First   Appeal   and   Special   Civil  Application in nut­shell are as under: 
[3.1] That the original plaintiff - Gujarat State Fertilizers and Chemicals   Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "original plaintiff") initially instituted  Special Summary Suit No.171/2008 in the Court of learned Civil Judge  (Senior   Division),   Vadodara   for   recovery   of   a   total   sum   of  Rs.22,47,83,286/­ (Rs.12,31,49,933/­ by way of principal amount and  Rs.10,16,33,353/­ towards running interest upto 31.10.2007). That on  constitution   of   the   Commercial   Court   under   the   provisions   of   the  Commercial Courts Act, 2015, the said suit came to be transferred to the  Commercial   Court,   at   Vadodara   which   was   numbered   as   Commercial  Civil Suit No.79/2016.
[3.2] That it was the case on behalf of the original plaintiff that original  plaintiff   Company   is   engaged   in   the   business   of   manufacturing   and  selling   of   fertilizers   and   chemicals.   That   the   defendant   Company   is  division   of   Modipon   Limited   and   engaged   in   the   business   of  manufacturing   of   Nylon   Filament   Yarn.   That   both   the   companies   are  dealing with each other since around 25 years. That the original plaintiff  Company   used   to   enter   into   annual   agreement   for   supply   of  Caprolactam which is main raw material which is used to produce the  Nylon   Filament   Yarn.   That   every   year   the   original   plaintiff   Company  used   to   sell   the   contracted   quantity   of   Caprolactam   as   per   annual  agreement. That the said sale of Caprolactam was made against suitable  security   of   LC  and/or   post  dated   cheques.  That  the   selling  price  was  decided   by   the   original   plaintiff   Company   from   time   to   time   and  communicated to the defendant. That the terms of the payment were  decided between the parties from time to time and as per the invoices  issued by the original plaintiff from time to time the credit days were  shown as 30 days + 30 days, meaning thereby total 60 days' credit was  given to the original defendants for making the payment. According to  the original plaintiff so stated in the plaint, it was further agreed that if  the   payment   is   not   made   on   due   date,   the   penal   interest   shall   be  recoverable as per the interest clause. That the defendant was liable to  pay the interest as per the rate of interest for respective financial year.  That the payment for such debit notes were duly made by the original  defendants within 7 days from the issuance of the debit notes. It was  also the case on behalf of the original plaintiff and so averred in the  plaint that the defendant used to purchase the goods and the original  plaintiff used to open and maintain the current account of the defendant  and used to credit the amount received from the defendant for the goods  supplied. That the last payment was made by the defendant through pay  order on 30.04.2017 for a sum of Rs.2 lakh and thereafter the defendant  has  stopped  making  any payment to  the   original  plaintiff  against the  goods   supplied   /   sent   earlier   and   the   invoices   issued   by   the   original  plaintiff from time to time. Therefore, according to the original plaintiff  the defendant is liable to pay a sum of Rs.12,31,49,933/­ and as per the  interest   clause   defendant   is   liable   to   pay   total   interest   of  Rs.10,16,33,353/­   towards   interest   upto   the   period   of   31.10.2007.   It  was further averred in the plaint that against the aforesaid amount due  outstanding against the defendant, the defendant issued 90 cheques in  discharge of his liabilities but all the 90 cheques were got dishonored  and the original plaintiff has instituted criminal complaint under Section  138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881. It was further averred that  on   return   of   the   cheques   the   original   plaintiff   has   issued   debit   notes  dated   21.10.2007   for   Rs.75,000/­   being   the   cheque   return   charges.  Thus, according to the original plaintiff the original plaintiff has become  entitled   to   recover   from   the   defendant   Company   a   sum   of  Rs.22,47,83,286/­. It was further averred that the original plaintiff has  not claimed any other relief. Therefore, the suit falls within the ambit of  Order XXXVII of the CPC. 
[3.3] That   having   been   served   with   the   summonses   of   the   suit,   the  defendant put its appearance. That the original plaintiff submitted the  application for issuance of summonses of judgment. The defendant filed  the application Exh.15 seeking leave to defend inter alia on the grounds  that (1) suit of the  original  plaintiff is not maintainable  under Order  XXXVII of the CPC; (2) that the suit has not been properly instituted and  the   person   who   signed   on   behalf   of   the   original   plaintiff   is   not  authorized; (3) that the original plaintiff has not narrated the correct  facts   and   circumstances;   (4)   that   the   defendant   is   not   liable   to   pay  interest claimed; (5) the principal amount is also disputed and (6) that  the 90 cheques were issued by way of security and not in discharge of  the liability. Therefore, it was prayed to grant the unconditional leave to  defend the suit. 
[3.4] That   by   a   reasoned   order   dated   20.09.2016   the   learned  Commercial   Court   granted   the   conditional   leave   to   the   defendant   to  defend the suit subject to deposit of Rs.5 Crores within 2 months from  the date of the order. At this stage it is required to be noted that at the  relevant   time   the   defendant   did   not   challenge   the   said   order   of  conditional   leave.   However,   thereafter   the   defendant   moved   an  application Exh.49 for extension of time. The said application was partly  allowed and the defendant was granted further time and permitted to  deposit   the   said   amount   on   or   before   20.12.2016.   While   seeking  extension it was submitted on behalf of the defendant that the amount  could not be deposited but the original defendants have requested the  State of U.P. seeking permission to sell the property but the State of U.P.  has not given any reply to the said letter. However, after further time  was granted upto 20.12.2016 passed below Exh.49, neither there was  any application for extension nor the aforesaid amount of Rs.5 Crores  were deposited as per the order passed below Exh.15. That thereafter by  judgment and decree dated 20.12.2016 impugned in the First Appeal,  the learned Commercial Court has decreed the suit partly and passed a  decree   against   the   defendant   and   in   favour   of   original   plaintiff   to  recover an amount of Rs.22,47,83,286/­ alongwith running interest at  10% p.a. from the date of filing of the suit till realization of the amount. 
[3.5] That   feeling   aggrieved   and   dissatisfied   with   the   impugned  judgment  and   decree   passed   by   the   learned   Commercial   Court   dated  20.12.2016 in Commercial Civil Suit No.79/2016, the appellant herein - 
original defendant has preferred the present First Appeal on 23.02.2017.  That thereafter i.e. after the judgment and decree passed by the learned  Commercial Court, the original defendant has preferred the Special Civil  Application No.4764/2017 challenging the order passed by the learned  Commercial Court below Exh.15 granting the conditional leave to the  defendant   to   defend   the   suit   on   deposit   of   Rs.5   Crores   i.e.   granting  conditional   leave  and  not  granting   unconditional  leave   to  defend  the  suit to the original defendants, the original defendants have preferred  Special Civil Application No.4764/2017. At the cost of repetition it is to  be   noted   that   that   Special   Civil   Application   No.4764/2017   has   been  preferred by the petitioners after the judgment and decree passed by the  learned Commercial Court and at the relevant time i.e. before passing  the judgment and decree, the original defendants did not challenge the  order   below   Exh.15   granting   conditional   leave   and   not   granting  unconditional leave to the original defendants to defend the suit. 
[3.6] Learned   Counsel   appearing   for   respective   parties   have   made  common submissions in First Appeal as well as Special Civil Application  and have addressed the Court on partly allowing Exh.15 and granting  conditional   leave   to   the   original   defendants   to   defend   the   suit   on  condition to deposit Rs.5 Crores and not granting unconditional leave to  the original defendants to defend the suit. 
[4.0] Shri   Devan   Parikh,   learned   Senior   Advocate   has   appeared   on  behalf of the appellant herein / petitioners herein - original defendants  and Shri K.S. Nanavati, learned Senior Advocate has appeared on behalf  of the respondent herein - original plaintiff. 
[5.0] Shri Parikh, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the original  defendants   has   vehemently   submitted   that   in   the   facts   and  circumstances of the case, the learned Judge has materially erred in not  granting unconditional leave to the  original  defendants to defend the  suit. 
[5.1] It   is   submitted   by   Shri   Parikh,   learned   Counsel   appearing   on  behalf of the original defendants that number of contentions were raised  before the learned Commercial Court and number of submissions were  made which will raise the triable issues and therefore, the learned Judge  ought   to   have   granted   unconditional   leave   to   defend   the   suit   to   the  original defendants. 
[5.2] It is further submitted by Shri Parikh, learned Counsel appearing  on   behalf   of   the   original   defendants   that   as   such   the   learned   Judge  himself in the impugned order has specifically observed that there are  triable issues. It is submitted that despite the above finding that there  are triable issues the learned Judge has not granted the unconditional  leave to the original defendants to defend the suit. 
[5.3] It   is   vehemently   submitted   by   Shri   Parikh,   learned   Counsel  appearing   on   behalf   of   the   original   defendants   that   it   is   a   settled  proposition   of   law   and  as  per   the  catena  of  decisions   of   the  Hon'ble  Supreme Court as well as this Court, once there are triable issues, the  original defendants shall be entitled to the unconditional leave to defend  the suit. In support of his above submissions, he has heavily relied upon  the   decision   of   the   Hon'ble   Supreme   Court   in   the   case   of  Mechelec  Engineers   and   Manufacturers   vs.   Basic   Equipment   Corporation  reported in (1976) 4 SCC 687. 
[5.4] It is further submitted by Shri Parikh, learned Counsel appearing  on   behalf   of   the   original   defendants   that   as   such   in   absence   of   any  written   agreement   between   the   original   plaintiff   and   the   original  defendants   for   supply   of   goods,   the   summary   suit   itself   is   not  maintainable. It is submitted that as provided under Order XXXVII Rule  2   of   the   CPC,   the   summary   suit   shall   be   maintainable   on   a   written  contract. It is submitted that in the present case as such the so­called  annual   contract   was   as   such   not   signed   by   the   defendant   No.1.   It   is  submitted that even the said proforma only, contract upon which the  recovery suit is filed, was not even between the original plaintiff and the  defendant No.1. It is submitted that therefore the summary suit itself, in  absence of any written contract between the original plaintiff and the  original defendants, shall not be maintainable. It is further submitted  that even as per section 46 of the Companies Act, before any written  agreement   /   contract   between   the   original   plaintiff   and   the   original  defendant Company, it must be approved by the Board of Directors of  the Company and then and then only it can bind the Company. 
[5.5] It is further submitted by Shri Parikh, learned Counsel appearing  on   behalf   of   the   original   defendants   that   therefore,   the   annual  agreement dated 08.04.2004 upon which the reliance has been placed  by the original plaintiff cannot be termed to be a written agreement as  contemplated under Order XXXVII of the CPC. 
[5.6] It is submitted that even the said annual agreement produced on  record was not signed by both the sides and therefore, the same cannot  be said to be a written contract. It is further submitted by Shri Parikh,  learned   Counsel   appearing   on   behalf   of   the   original   defendants   that  even the original plaintiff has not produced the original document of the  said annual agreement. It is  submitted that therefore the  said annual  agreement   is   not   admissible   in   evidence.   In   support   of   his   above  submission,   Shri   Parikh,   learned   Counsel   appearing   on   behalf   of   the  original defendants has heavily relied upon the decision of the Hon'ble  Supreme   Court   in   the   case   of  Neebha   Kapoor   vs.   Jayantilal  Khandwala and Others reported in (2008) 3 SCC 770.
[5.7] It is submitted that therefore the maintainability of the summary  suit in absence of written contract itself is a triable issue and therefore,  the   learned   Judge   ought   to   have   granted   the   unconditional   leave   to  defend the suit to the original defendants. 
[5.8] It is further submitted by Shri Parikh, learned Counsel appearing  on behalf of the original defendants that even the suit was instituted by  the person who was not authorized to institute the suit on behalf of the  original plaintiff. It is submitted that therefore also the learned Judge  ought   to   have   granted   the   unconditional   leave   to   the   original  defendants. It is submitted that the authority produced by the original  plaintiff cannot be termed to be an authority necessary for filing the suit.  It is submitted that referring to page 54 of the Record & Proceedings -  Authority Letter in favour of the person who had instituted the suit, it is  vehemently submitted by Shri Parikh, learned Counsel that an authority  to file a suit is completely different from right to file a suit on behalf of  the Company. It is submitted that nothing is on record to suggest that  any decision was taken by the original plaintiff to institute the suit for  recovery of the amount against the defendant. 
[5.9] It is further submitted by Shri Parikh, learned Counsel appearing  on behalf of the original defendants that even the original plaintiff had  also not come with clean hands and had not stated true and correct facts  in the plaint. It is submitted that infact the original plaintiff had already  filed a suit for redemption of mortgage for recovery of the very amount  which   is   claimed   in   the   suit   before   the   Bombay   High   Court   and   the  mortgaged   property   of   the   company   has   been   got   attached.   It   is  submitted that once the original plaintiff has chosen to file a suit for  redemption of the mortgage of the property of the defendant Company,  thereafter   it   is   not  open   for  the  original  plaintiff  to   file   a   suit   under  Order XXXVII of the CPC. It is further submitted that when the property  which  was mortgaged and now under the order of the Bombay High  Court is attached as a security with the original plaintiff, there was no  need   to   grant   the   conditional   leave   as   the   mortgaged   property   is   a  security   enough   to   entitle   the   appellant   for   unconditional   leave   to  defend. 
[5.10] It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Parikh,   learned   Counsel  appearing on behalf of the original defendants that even otherwise in  the suit the original plaintiff has claimed the interest and in absence of  any contractual obligation to pay the interest as claimed, such summary  suit shall not be maintainable and therefore also, the original defendants  shall be entitled to the unconditional leave to defend the suit. 
[5.11] It   is   further   submitted   that   not   only   that   but   even   the  original  plaintiff  has  claimed the  penal interest for which  there  is  no  agreement   between   the   parties.   It   is   further   submitted   that   even   the  original plaintiff had claimed interest at the rate of 14.5%. Even as per  the original plaintiff in the invoice the rate of interest is mentioned at  15%. It is submitted that therefore in absence of any written agreement  on interest, such a summary suit shall not be maintainable. 
[5.12] It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Parikh,   learned   Counsel  appearing on behalf of the original defendants that even otherwise the  present   summary   suit   shall   not   be   maintainable   in   absence   of   any  specific averments in the suit as required, as per Order XXXVII Rule 2 of  the CPC, that no relief is claimed in the suit which otherwise shall not be  maintainable under Order XXXVII of the CPC. In support of his above  submissions,  Shri  Parikh,  learned  Counsel  appearing  on   behalf  of  the  original defendants has heavily relied upon the decision of the Hon'ble  Supreme   Court   in   the   case   of  Satellite   Television   Asian   Region  Limited and Anr. vs. Kunvar Ajay Foods Pvt. Ltd.  reported in  2009  (1) GLH 590 (Para 21). 
[5.13] It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Parikh,   learned   Counsel  appearing on behalf of the original defendants that even some of the  claims are time barred and therefore also, the original defendants shall  be entitled to the unconditional leave. 
[5.14] It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Parikh,   learned   Counsel  appearing   on   behalf   of   the   original   defendants   that   therefore  considering the aforesaid facts and circumstances, when the appellants  are   successful   in   raising   the   triable   issues,   which   as   such   have   been  accepted   by   the   learned   Commercial   Court,   in   that   case   the   original  defendants were entitled to unconditional leave to defend the suit.
No other submissions have been made. 
Making above submissions and relying upon the decision of the  Hon'ble   Supreme   Court   in   the   case   of   Mechelec   Engineers   and  Manufacturers (Supra) as well as the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme  Court in the case of State Bank of Hyderabad vs. Rabo Bank reported  in  (2015) 10 SCC 521; Jayantilal Khandwala and Others (Supra), it is  requested to allow the present First Appeal as well as the Special Civil  Application and to quash and set aside the order passed by the learned  Commercial Court below Exh.15 in not granting unconditional leave to  defend   the   suit   to   the   original   defendants   and   thereafter   partly  decreeing the suit on non­deposit of the amount as per the order passed  below Exh.15. 
[6.0] Present First Appeal is vehemently opposed by Shri K.S. Nanavati,  learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the original plaintiff. 
[6.1] Shri Nanavati, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the original  plaintiff has submitted that in the facts and circumstances of the case the  learned Commercial Court had rightly not granted unconditional leave  to defend the suit. 
[6.2] It   is   vehemently   submitted   by   Shri   Nanavati,   learned   Counsel  appearing on behalf of the original plaintiff that as such against the total  claim   of   Rs.22,47,83,286/­   (out   of   which   Rs.12,31,49,933/­   was   the  principal   amount)   infact   the   learned   Commercial   Court   directed   the  original   defendants   to   deposit   Rs.5   Crores   only   while   granting  conditional leave to defend the suit to the original defendants, which in  the facts and circumstances of the case is not required to be interfered  with. 
[6.3] It   is   vehemently   submitted   by   Shri   Nanavati,   learned   Counsel  appearing   on  behalf   of  the  original   plaintiff   that  as   such  initially   the  original defendants had not challenged the order passed below Exh.15  till even the impugned judgment and decree came to be passed. It is  submitted that till the impugned judgment and order came to be passed  by   the   learned   Commercial   Court,   the   original   defendants   therefore,  permitted the order passed below Exh.15 to operate. It is submitted that  thereafter on non­compliance / non­deposit of the amount as directed  by   the   learned   Commercial   Court   while   passing   the   order   at   Exh.15,  thereafter when the impugned judgment and decree has been passed,  challenge   to   the   order   below   Exh.15   as   such   is   nothing   but   an  afterthought and therefore, as such the appellants may not be permitted  to challenge the order passed by the learned Commercial Court below  Exh.15   which   as   such   was   not   challenged   by   the   defendant   at   the  relevant time. 
[6.4] It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Nanavati,   learned   Counsel  appearing on behalf of the original plaintiff that even while submitting  the application Exh.49 for extension of time to deposit the amount of  Rs.5 Crores, the learned Advocate appearing on behalf of the original  defendants requested to grant some more time as they had sought the  permission  from  the  State  of  U.P. to  dispose  of  their  properties.  It  is  submitted that therefore till the impugned judgment and decree came to  be   passed,   the   original   defendants   were   not   aggrieved   by   the   order  below Exh.15. It is submitted that only when the impugned judgment  and decree has  been  passed by the  learned Commercial  Court, as  an  afterthought and having realized that non­challenge to the order below  Exh.15 will come in their way, they have subsequently and even after  filing   of   the   First   Appeal   challenging   the   impugned   judgment   and  decree, the original defendants have challenged the order passed below  Exh.15 belatedly by way of Special Civil Application. 
[6.5] It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Nanavati,   learned   Counsel  appearing on behalf of the original plaintiff that even on merits also it  cannot be said that while passing the order below Exh.15, the learned  Judge   committed   any   error   in   directing   the   original   defendants   to  deposit Rs.5 Crores while granting conditional leave to defend the suit  to the original defendants. 
[6.6] It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Nanavati,   learned   Counsel  appearing on behalf of the original plaintiff that having noted that the  original   defendants   have   infact   consumed   the   goods   Caprolactam  supplied from time to time under various invoices and for which even  the debit notes were issued from time to time and thereafter at no point  of time they raised any grievance with respect to quantity and/or quality  and/or otherwise and even 90 cheques which were given by the original  defendants   against   the   dues   came   to   be   returned   /   dishonored   and  thereafter   against   the   total   dues   of   Rs.12,31,49,933/­   by   way   of  principal amount, when the learned Judge had imposed the condition to  deposit   Rs.5   Crores   only,   the   same   cannot   be   said   to   be   in   anyway  erroneous and/or contrary to the provisions of the law which calls for  interference of this Court in exercise of powers under Article 227 of the  Constitution of India. 
[6.7] Now,   so   far   as   the   reliance   placed   upon   the   decision   of   the  Hon'ble   Supreme   Court   in   the   case   of   Mechelec   Engineers   and  Manufacturers (Supra) by the learned Counsel appearing on behalf of  the  original  defendants,  Shri  Nanavati,  learned  Counsel  appearing  on  behalf of the original plaintiff has heavily relied upon the recent decision  of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of IDBI Trusteeship Services  Limited   vs.   Hubtown   Limited  reported   in  (2017)   1   SCC   568.   It   is  submitted that in the aforesaid decision the Hon'ble Supreme Court had  an   occasion   to   consider   the   earlier   decision   of   the   Hon'ble   Supreme  Court in the case of Mechelec Engineers and Manufacturers (Supra) and  in view of the subsequent amendment to Order XXXVII Rule 3 of the  CPC, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has observed and held that principle  stated in para 8 of Mechelec's case will stand superseded. It is submitted  that   therefore   now   no   reliance   can   be   made   on   the   decision   of   the  Hon'ble   Supreme   Court   in   the   case   of   Mechelec   Engineers   and  Manufacturers (Supra). 
[6.8] It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Nanavati,   learned   Counsel  appearing on behalf of the original plaintiff that in the recent decision in  the case of Hubtown Limited (Supra), the Hon'ble Supreme Court after  considering the earlier various decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court  on the point has observed and held that (1) principle stated in para 8 of  the   Mechelec's   case   will   now   stand   superseded;   (2)   even   if   the  defendant   raises   triable   issues,   if   a   doubt   is   left   with   the   trial   Judge  about the defendant's good faith or the genuineness of the triable issues,  the trial Judge may impose conditions both, as to time or mode of trial,  as well as payment into court or furnishing security. 
[6.9] It is further submitted that in the aforesaid decision it is observed  by the Hon'ble Supreme Court that care must be taken to see that the  object   of   the   provisions   to   assist   expeditious   disposal   of   commercial  causes   is   not   defeated.   If   the   defendant   raises   a   defence   which   is  plausible but improbable, the trial Judge may impose conditions as to  time   or   mode   of   trial,   as   well   as   payment   into   court,   or   furnishing  security; if any part of the amount claimed by the original plaintiff is  admitted by the defendant to be due from him, leave to defend the suit,  (even if triable issues or a substantial defence is raised), shall not be  granted unless the amount so admitted to be due is deposited by the  defendant in Court. It is  submitted  that therefore in the  present case  when the goods supplied to to the original defendants, supplied from  time to time by issuing the invoices as debit notes, are consumed by the  original defendants without raising any dispute and even thereafter also  no dispute is raised with respect to quantity and/or quality of the goods  supplied and so consumed and even 90 cheques which were issued came  to be dishonored, the learned Commercial Court has not committed any  error in directing the original defendants to deposit Rs.5 Crores against  the total claim of Rs.22,47,83,286/­ (out of which Rs.12,31,49,933/­ has  been claimed by way of principal amount). 
[6.10] It  is   further  submitted  by Shri  Nanavati,  learned Counsel  appearing on behalf of the original plaintiff that even the defences which  are raised on behalf of the original defendants more particularly with  respect   to   the   absence   of   written   contract   /   agreement;   the   annual  agreement not signed by the parties; the defence regarding authority to  file the suit are concerned, it is submitted that all the aforesaid defences  are moonshine defences. It is submitted that once the goods supplied are  consumed   without   raising   any   dispute,   such   defences   are   dishonest  defences   which   would   have   a   direct   bearing   on   grant   of   conditional  leave to the original defendants. 
[6.11] Relying   upon   the   documents   on   record   (Page   54   of   the  paper book), it is submitted that the person who has filed the suit had  the authority to file the suit and he was authorized to file the suit for  recovery of the amount.
[6.12] Now, so far as the interest claimed in the suit is concerned,  it is vehemently submitted that in the invoices itself there is a specific  mention to the right of interest on non­payment of the amount due and  payable under the invoices. It is submitted that infact as per the invoices  the   original   plaintiff   was   entitled   to   the   interest   at   the   rate   of   15%,  against   which   the   original   plaintiff   claimed   only   14.5%   interest.   It   is  submitted that as such the learned Commercial Court while passing the  impugned judgment and decree has awarded the interest at the rate of  10% per annum from the date of filing of the suit till realization. 
[6.13] Now,   so   far   as   the   submission   on   behalf   of   the   original  defendant on written agreement / contract is concerned, Shri Nanavati,  learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the original plaintiff has heavily  relied   upon   the   definition   of   "written   contract"   as   defined   under   the  Black's   Law   Dictionary.   It   is   submitted   that   to   constitute   a   written  agreement   /   contract   the   intention   of   the   parties   are   required   to   be  inferred and such inference in the instance case can be drawn from not  only the clause of the annual agreement but also subsequent conduct of  both the parties which reflected from various communications from time  to time between the parties and the invoices and the debit notes. It is  submitted that if all these documents are considered, which are already  produced on record, it would go to suggest that a summary suit was  maintainable under Order XXXVII of the CPC. 
[6.14] Now,   so   far   as   the   submission   on   behalf   of   the   original  defendants regarding the dual action before the High Court of Bombay  and the submission on behalf of the original defendants that the original  plaintiff has not disclosed in the suit the filing of the suit for redemption  of the mortgage in the Bombay High Court, it is submitted that as such  the said suit for redemption of the mortgage as such has been instituted  subsequently,   subsequent   to   the   filing   of   the   summary   suit.   It   is  submitted that both the proceedings namely the summary suit as well as  the suit before the Bombay High Court for redemption of mortgage are  both independent and different proceedings and based on independent  document   and   cause   of   action.   It   is   submitted   that   the   suit   for  redemption   of  mortgage  before  the   Bombay  High  Court  is   the  action  initiated by the original plaintiff against the Managing Director of the  Company based on independent document of mortgage by the Managing  Director   of   the   Company   and   therefore,   the   same   is   completely  unrelated   to   the   claim   of   the   original   plaintiff   against   the   original  defendants   in   the   present   suit.   It   is   submitted   that   even   the   amount  covered under the mortgage was only to the extent of Rs.2 Crores, which  is a very small amount as against the claim of the original plaintiff in the  suit of Rs.22,47,83,286/­. 
[6.15] Relying upon the averments in para 18 of the plaint it is  vehemently submitted by Shri Nanavati, learned Counsel appearing on  behalf of the original plaintiff that as such there are necessary averments  in the plaint as required while invoking the provisions of Order XXXVII  of the CPC.
Making above submissions and relying upon above decisions it is  requested to  dismiss  the  present First  Appeal  as  well  as   Special  Civil  Application.  
[7.0] Heard   learned   Counsel   appearing   on   behalf   of   the   respective  parties at length. 
At the outset it is required to be noted that the original plaintiff  had   instituted   the   summary   suit   against   the   original   defendants   for  recovery   of   Rs.22,47,83,286/­   for   the   goods   supplied   to   the   original  defendants for which the necessary invoices and debit notes were issued  from time to time and the goods which came to be consumed by the  original defendants without raising any dispute with respect to quality  or quantity. It is also required to be noted that according to the original  plaintiff, 90 different cheques were given by the original defendants to  the original plaintiff against the dues, however when presented, all the  cheques   came   to   be   dishonored.   Considering   the   aforesaid   facts   and  circumstances,   the   learned   Judge,   Commercial   Court   by   a   detailed  speaking order below Exh.15 partly allowed the said application Exh.15  and granted leave to defend to the original defendants on condition of  deposit of Rs.5 Crores. 
[7.1] At this stage it is required to be noted that order below Exh.15  granting conditional leave to the original defendants to defend the suit  on condition of deposit of Rs.5 Crores came to be passed on 20.09.2016.  The   original  defendants  were   directed  to  deposit   the   amount  of   Rs.5  Crores   within   a   period   of   2   months.   The   original   defendants   at   the  relevant time did not challenge the order passed below Exh.15. On the  contrary   the   original   defendants   submitted   the   application   Exh.49   to  extend   the   time   to   deposit   the   aforesaid   amount   of   Rs.5   Crores  submitting that they had sought the permission from the State of U.P. to  dispose of / sell their properties. In the application Exh.49 submitted by  the original defendants, it was submitted as under: 
"1. Present   suit   has   been   filed   for   recovery   of   amount   of  Rs.22,47,83,286/­. That Hon'ble Court has ordered to deposit of Rs.  5 Cr to defend the suit. Thus, leave to defend the suit is granted on  condition  that  the   amount  should   be  deposited   within  2  Months.  The defendant has been trying to generate the funds to comply with  the order of this Hon'ble Court but has not been success so far. The  property   situated   at   Modinagar   from   where   defendant   has   been  operating and running their company was originally acquired for the  purpose of M/s. Modipon Ltd. The government of Uttar Pradesh had  permitted to transfer the said land to new factory i.e. M/s. Modipon  Ltd. by their order dt. 11.3.1966. It is humbly submitted that on  account of condition fastened by government of Uttar Pradesh under  the concerned law where said property or any part thereof was not  to be transferred in any manner except with the previous sanction of  the state government (Uttar Pradesh). 
2. In view of above facts in order to comply with the order of  this Hon'ble Court the necessary procedure for obtaining previous  sanction of government of Uttar Pradesh to transfer part of the said  land is required in order to complete this requirement and generate  the funds so as to comply the order of this Hon'ble Court. The time  limit fixed by this Hon'ble Court may please be extended for period  of 2 (Two) months and enable the defendant to obtain necessary  sanction for the sale / transfer of land situated at Modinagar which  may be found sufficient to comply with the order of this Hon'ble  Court. Kindly allow he application to enable defendants to obtain  necessary sanction."
Thus,   the   original   defendants   requested   to   extend   the   time   to  comply with the order below Exh.15. That despite the strong objection  on behalf of the original plaintiff, the learned Judge, Commercial Court  was   gracious   enough   to   grant   further   4   weeks'   time   to   the   original  defendants to comply with the order below Exh.15. Despite the above,  the original defendants failed to deposit the amount of Rs.5 Crore as per  the order below Exh.15. From the averments made in the application at  Exh.49, it appears that the original defendants were not aggrieved by the  order below Exh.15 and infact it can be said that they accepted the said  order and sought further extension to comply with the said order. That  thereafter on non­compliance of the order below Exh.15  and on non­ deposit  of  the  amount of Rs.5 Crores  as  per  the  order  below Exh.15,  which   was   further   extended   by   a   further   period   of   4   weeks   and   in  absence of challenge to the order below Exh.15, thereafter the learned  Judge has passed the impugned judgment and decree. That thereafter  the   original   defendants   have   preferred   the   present   First   Appeal  challenging the impugned judgment and decree and only thereafter the  original defendants have challenged the order below Exh.15 by way of  Special Civil Application No.4764/2017 which at the relevant time the  original   defendants   did   not   challenge   and   infact   as   observed   herein  above   they   submitted   the   application  Exh.49  for   extension   of  time  to  make the deposit to comply with the order below Exh.15. In light of the  above,   the   challenge   to   the   order   below   Exh.15   granting   conditional  leave to the original defendants is required to be considered. Considering  the aforesaid facts and circumstances even the bonafides of the original  defendants are required to be considered. It is required to be noted that  against the total dues of Rs.12,31,49,933/­ by way of principal amount  for the goods supplied by the original plaintiff to the original defendants,  supplied from time to time under various different invoices  and debit  notes, the goods which came to be consumed by the original defendants  without   raising   any   dispute   with   respect   to   either   quantity   and/or  quality,   infact   the   learned   Judge   directed   the   original   defendants   to  deposit a sum of Rs.5 Crores only, while granting conditional leave to  the   defendants   to   defend   the   suit.   Therefore,   while   considering   the  legality and validity of the impugned order passed by the learned Judge,  Commercial   Court   directing   the   original   defendants   to   deposit   Rs.5  Crores while granting the conditional leave to the original defendants to  defend the suit is required to be considered. 
[7.3] It   is   the   case   on   behalf   of   the   original   defendants   that   as   the  original defendants have raised the triable issues, the original defendants  shall be entitled to the unconditional leave. It is the case on behalf of the  original   defendants   that   even   the   learned   Commercial   Court   has   also  observed that there are some triable issues. It is submitted that therefore,  once   having   been   found   that   there   are   triable   issues,   the   original  defendants shall be entitled to the unconditional leave. For the aforesaid  the learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the original defendants has  heavily relied upon the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the  case of Mechelec Engineers and Manufacturers (Supra)  and in the case  of Rabo Bank (Supra). 
[7.4] Now,   so   far   as   the   defences   which   are   raised   on   behalf   of   the  original defendants recorded herein above are concerned, the same can  be   dealt   with   individually   which   shall   be   dealt   with   hereinbelow.  However,   assuming   that   there   may   be   and/or   there   are   some   triable  issues, in that case also, can it be said whether the learned Judge has  committed any error in not granting unconditional leave to defend the  suit to the original defendants and granting the conditional leave to the  original defendants to defend the suit on deposit of Rs.5 Crores and it is  required to be considered whether such an order directing the original  defendants to deposit Rs.5 Crores against the claim of Rs.12,31,49,933/­  as a principal amount requires any interference by this Court in exercise  of powers under Article 227 of the Constitution of India? 
[7.5] While considering the legality and validity of the impugned order  passed by the learned Judge below Exh.15, the decision of the Hon'ble  Supreme Court in the case of Hubtown Limited (Supra) is required to be  referred to and considered. In the case of Hubtown Limited (Supra), the  Hon'ble   Supreme   Court   has   considered   by   and   large   all   the   earlier  decisions on the subject including the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme  Court in the case of Mechelec Engineers and Manufacturers (Supra), the  decision   which   has   been   heavily   relied   upon   by   the   learned   Counsel  appearing   on   behalf   of   the   original   defendants.   After   considering   the  effect of amendment of Order XXXVII (as amended in 1976), the Hon'ble  Supreme Court has observed and held that the principles stated in para 8  of the Mechelec Enginners and Manufacturers (Supra) will now stand  superseded and thereafter in para 17 the Hon'ble Supreme Court has  observed and concluded as under:
"17. Accordingly,   the   principles   stated   in   para   8   of   Mechelec's  case4 will now stand superseded, given the amendment of Order 37  Rule 3 and the binding decision of four judges in Milkhiram's case 6,  as follows: 
17.1 If the defendant satisfies the Court that he has a substantial  defence,   that   is,   a   defence   that   is   likely   to   succeed,   the   original  plaintiff is not entitled to leave to sign judgment, and the defendant  is entitled to unconditional leave to defend the suit.
  17.2 If the defendant raises triable issues indicating that he has a  fair or reasonable defence, although not a positively good defence,  the   original   plaintiff   is   not   entitled   to   sign   judgment,   and   the  defendant is ordinarily entitled to unconditional leave to defend.  17.3 Even if the defendant raises triable issues, if a doubt is left  with   the   trial   judge   about   the   defendant's   good   faith,   or   the  genuineness   of   the   triable   issues,   the   trial   judge   may   impose  conditions both as to time or mode of trial, as well as payment into  court   or   furnishing   security.   Care   must   be   taken   to   see   that   the  object of the provisions to assist expeditious disposal of commercial  causes  is  not  defeated.  Care   must  also   be  taken  to   see   that  such  triable issues are not shut out by unduly severe orders as to deposit  or security. 
17.4 If   the   Defendant   raises   a   defence   which   is   plausible   but  improbable,   the   trial   Judge   may   impose   conditions   as   to   time   or  mode of trial, as well as payment into court, or furnishing security. 
As   such   a   defence   does   not   raise   triable   issues,   conditions   as   to  deposit or security or both can extend to the entire principal sum  together with such interest as the court feels the justice of the case  requires. 
17.5 If the Defendant has no substantial defence and/or raises no  genuine   triable   issues,   and   the   court   finds   such   defence   to   be  frivolous or vexatious, then leave to defend the suit shall be refused,  and the original plaintiff is entitled to judgment forthwith.  17.6 If any part of the amount claimed by the original plaintiff is  admitted by the defendant to be due from him, leave to defend the  suit, (even if triable issues or a substantial defence is raised), shall  not be granted unless the amount so admitted to be due is deposited  by the defendant in court." 
[7.6] Applying the law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the  case of Hubtown Limited (Supra) to the facts of the case on hand, it  cannot be said that the learned Judge, Commercial Court has committed  any error in directing the original defendants to deposit a sum of Rs.5  Crores while granting conditional leave to defend the suit to the original  defendants. Assuming that  there  are some triable issues, but as  those  defences  prima   facie  cannot   be   said   to   be   bonafide   defences   more  particularly after consuming the goods supplied from time to time and  thereafter not making the payment for the same. At the cost of repetition  it   is   observed   that   in   the   present   case   the   original   plaintiff   supplied  Caprolactam to the original defendants as per the annual agreement for  which the invoices and the debit notes were issued from time to time  and  the  original   defendants  consumed  the   said  goods  without  raising  any dispute with respect to quantity and/or quality and even without  raising any dispute with respect to the amounts mentioned in the debit  notes.   Not   only   that,   but   even   the   original   defendants   also   issued  different   90   cheques,   may   be   against   the   security   (according   to   the  defendants)   to   secure   the   amount   due   and   payable   to   the   original  plaintiff all of which came to be bounced / returned and thereafter when  the aforesaid defences are raised, the same cannot be said to be fair or  reasonable defences and/or the defences raised in good faith. Therefore,  the  case  would  fall  under   paras  17.3,  17.4,  17.5   and  17.6  which  are  referred to herein above. Therefore, in the facts and circumstances of the  case more particularly when earlier at an appropriate stage and time the  original   defendants   did   not   even   challenge   the   order   passed   by   the  learned Commercial Court below Exh.15 and infact they accepted it and  sought   extension   to   comply   with   the   same,   the   present   petition  challenging the order below Exh.15 deserves to be dismissed. 
[7.7] Now, so far as the submission on behalf of the original plaintiffs  on the authority of the person who had filed the suit is concerned, the  same has no substance in view of the authority placed on record at page  54   of   the   paper   book.   The   person   who   has   filed   the   suit   has   been  authorized to file the suit for recovery against the original defendants. 
[7.8] Now, so far as the submission on behalf of the original defendants  that as the original plaintiff had claimed the interest / penal interest for  which   there   is   no   agreement   or   contract   between   the   parties   is  concerned,   from   the   invoices   which   contain   the   interest   clause,   the  aforesaid   defence   has   no   substance.   Nothing   is   on   record   that   after  receipt of the invoices the original defendants raised any dispute with  respect to the interest clause mentioned in the said invoices. Therefore,  the submission on behalf of the original defendants that the invoices can  be said to be an offer but cannot be said to be a concluded contract is  concerned,   the   aforesaid   has   no   substance   for   the   simple   reason   that  thereafter when the original defendants did not raise any dispute with  respect to interest clause mentioned in the invoices by conduct and/or  otherwise   the   same   shall   be   binding   to   the   original   defendants.  Therefore, the aforesaid defences can be said to be lacking bonafides and  cannot be said to be in good faith. 
[7.9] Now, so far as the submission on behalf of the original defendants  that   some  of  the  claims  are  barred  by  limitation  is   concerned, at  the  outset it is required to be noted that no such defence has been raised  before the learned Judge, Commercial Court. Not only that even in the  appeal memo also, no such ground is raised. Therefore, it appears that  the said defence is raised only for the sake of taking defence. 
[7.10] Now,   so   far   as   the   submission   on   behalf   of   the   original  defendants that the suit is filed on photocopy and the original has not  come   on   record   and   therefore,   the   suit   shall   not   be   maintainable   is  concerned,   it   is   required   to   be   noted   that   admissibility   of   the   said  document is to be considered not at this stage. What is required to be  considered in the present case and present proceedings is the impugned  order passed by the learned Judge below Exh.15 directing the original  defendants to deposit Rs.5 Crore while granting the conditional leave to  the original defendants to defend the suit. As observed herein above and  applying the law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of  the Jayantilal Khandwala and Others (Supra), it cannot be said that the  learned   Judge   has   committed   any   error   in   directing   the   original  defendants to deposit Rs.5 Crores (against the dues of Rs.12,31,49,933/­  towards   principal   amount)   while   granting   conditional   leave   to   the  original defendants to defend the suit.
[7.11] Now, so far as the reliance placed upon the decision of the  Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Rabo Bank (Supra) by the learned  Counsel appearing on behalf of the original defendants is concerned, at  the outset it is required to be noted that the said decision has also been  considered   by   the   Hon'ble   Supreme   Court   in   the   case   of   Hubtown  Limited (Supra) and thereafter, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has observed  and concluded in para 17 reproduced herein above. 
[7.12] Now, so far as the reliance placed upon the decision of the  Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Jayantilal Khandwala and Others  (Supra) relied upon by the learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the  original defendants is concerned, in view of the subsequent decision of  the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Hubtown Limited (Supra) and  even otherwise on facts also, the said decision shall not be applicable to  the   facts   of   the   case   on   hand   and/or   the   same   shall   not   be   of   any  assistance to the original defendants. 
[8.0] In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, it cannot be  said   that   in   the   facts   and   circumstances   of   the   case   narrated   herein  above, the learned Judge, Commercial Court has committed any error  while   passing   the   order   below   Exh.15   and   not   granting   the  unconditional  leave  to the  original  defendants  to defend the  suit  and  granting conditional leave to the original defendants to defend the suit  on deposit of Rs.5 Crores only. Under the circumstances, present Special  Civil   Application   No.4674/2017   and   First   Appeal   No.1438/2017  challenging respectively the order below Exh.15 and thereafter further  judgment and decree passed by the learned Commercial Court fail and  the   same   deserve   to   be   dismissed   and   are,   accordingly,   dismissed.  However, in the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no  order as to costs.   
Sd/­           (M.R. SHAH, J.)  Sd/­         (A.Y. KOGJE, J.)  Ajay**