Take notes as you read a judgment using our Virtual Legal Assistant and get email alerts whenever a new judgment matches your query (Query Alert Service). Try out our Premium Member Services -- Sign up today and get free trial for one month.
Allahabad High Court
Dinesh Chandra vs Eadred Finance Private Limited And 3 ... on 13 August, 2024
Author: Chief Justice
Bench: Chief Justice
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD
 
 


Neutral Citation No. - 2024:AHC:131236-DB
 
Reserved
 
Chief Justice's Court
 

 
Case :- APPEAL UNDER SECTION 37 OF ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 No. - 984 of 2023
 

 
Appellant :- Dinesh Chandra
 
Respondent :- Eadred Finance Private Limited And 3 Others
 
Counsel for Appellant :- A.K. Gupta (Sr. Adv.) with Viveka Nand Rai
 
Counsel for Respondent :- Manish Goyal (Sr. Adv.) with Nikhil Mishra and Subham Jadaun
 

 
Hon'ble Arun Bhansali,Chief Justice
 
Hon'ble Vikas Budhwar,J.
 
(Per: Arun Bhansali, CJ)
1. Heard Sri A.K. Gupta, learned Senior Advocate, assisted by Sri Viveka Nand Rai, learned counsel for the appellant and Sri Manish Goyal, learned Senior Advocate, assisted by Sri Nikhil Mishra and Sri Subham Jadaun, learned counsel for the respondents.
2. This appeal, filed under Section 37 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Act'), is directed against judgment dated 06.11.2023 passed by the Commercial Court No. 2, Agra, whereby the application filed by the appellant for setting aside arbitral award dated 06.09.2022 has been dismissed.
3. The appellant is a borrower from the respondent-company, wherein he took a loan of Rs. 70,00,000/- from the company on 28.04.2018 and was required to repay the same in monthly installments of Rs. 1,47,500/-.
4. On account of dispute pertaining to the repayment of the amount in question, the respondent approached the sole arbitrator by filing a claim to the tune of Rs. 1,41,54,573/- along with interest at the rate of 16% per annum with monthly rests. It appears that the appellant, on coming to know of appointment of arbitrator, filed objection/application under Sections 16, 12(3)(a) and 14 of the Act. Objection was rejected and the award impugned was passed against the appellant for the amount of Rs. 1,41,54,573/- along with interest at the rate of 16% per annum pendente lite. An amount of Rs. 2,47,900/- was also awarded as cost of arbitration.
5. Feeling aggrieved, the appellant filed application under Section 34 of the Act. Initially, the Commercial Court, by its order dated 20.04.2023, rejected the application under Section 34 of the Act by refusing to condone the delay in filing the application.
6. Feeling aggrieved, appeal under Section 37 of the Act No. 589 of 2023 was filed, which came to be allowed by order dated 31.05.2023 by a Division Bench of this Court, whereby the order dated 20.04.2023 passed by the Commercial Court was set aside and the matter was remanded back to the Commercial Court requiring it to decide the application under Section 34 of the Act on merits.
7. Whereafter the Commercial Court has passed the order impugned dismissing the application under Section 34, wherein the Commercial Court came to the conclusion that agreement dated 28.04.2018 is admitted, wherein it was agreed that sole arbitrator shall be appointed by the lender and therefore, it cannot be said that the appellant had not given any consent for appointment of arbitrator. The Court was further of the opinion that no objection was raised before the arbitrator and the appellant had participated in the arbitration proceedings. Further, the objection raised by filing application under Sections 12(3)(a), 14 and 16 of the Act was rejected by the arbitrator as the same was not filed within limitation prescribed under Section 13(2) of the Act. The Court was further of the opinion that once neither any document nor any proof has been produced to indicate that arbitrator had any relationship or interest in the respondent/company, there was no substance in the said allegation and consequently, dismissed the application under Section 34.
8. Feeling aggrieved, the present appeal has been filed. Learned counsel for the appellant made submissions that present is a case of unilateral appointment of the arbitrator, which is against the fundamental principles of natural justice. No notice was given by the respondent prior to appointment of sole arbitrator and the appellant neither participated nor was consulted in the process of appointment of arbitrator. The application was promptly filed before the arbitrator himself, who rejected the same on baseless grounds. It was submitted that irrespective of any other aspect, the mere fact that right to appoint arbitrator under the arbitration agreement has been conferred on 'the lender', the appointment made by the lender is void ab initio and consequently, the award cannot be sustained. Reliance was placed on Perkins Eastman Architects DPC and another Vs. HSCC (India) Limited : (2020) 20 SCC 760 and Ahluwalia Contracts (India) Limited Vs. Housing and Urban Development Corporation and another : (2007) 4 ArbLR 539.
9. Further submissions have been made that this Court, while remanding the matter, had directed the Commercial Court to decide the application on merits, however, the same has not been decided on merits and only the aspect pertaining to the jurisdiction of the arbitrator and validity of his appointment has been decided and on that count also the judgment impugned deserves to be set aside. Submissions were also made that the arbitrator is a known lawyer and has relations with the Director of the respondent-company and therefore, he is ineligible to be appointed as arbitrator, however, the said aspect of the matter has not at all been addressed by the Commercial Court and therefore, on that count also the order impugned deserves to be set aside.
10. Learned counsel for the respondent made vehement submissions that the entire plea sought to be raised by the appellant regarding appointment of the arbitrator is wholly baseless. Submissions have been made that before the arbitrator, despite notices of meeting dated 14.03.2022, 18.04.2022 and 21.05.2022, respondent did not appear, however, the arbitrator did not proceed with the matter ex-parte and on 21.05.2022, fixed the matter at 04:00 pm when appearance was made only by the appellant, who was granted time to file reply. On 01.06.2022, again time was granted to file reply. On 02.07.2022, the arbitrator noticed that an application dated 13.06.2022 along with affidavit, requesting the termination of arbitral proceedings has reached by post on 22.06.2022, when time was sought by the respondent to make submissions on the said application. On 15.07.2022, time was granted to move objection under Section 16 of the Act. On 23.07.2022, adjournment was sought by the appellant and after few dates, on 06.08.2022, the arbitrator decided the objections raised pertaining to his jurisdiction holding that though the respondent had received the communication proposing appointment of the arbitrator the same was not responded and as the objection filed is beyond limitation, as prescribed under Section 13(2) of the Act, the same was rejected. Observations were also made that the arbitrator had no past relationship with the company.
11. It was further emphasised by learned counsel that in terms of Section 30 of the Act, the appellant moved an application specifically indicating that under the guidance of the arbitrator, he was ready for talk regarding all the financial transactions in the process and required the arbitrator to conduct all the talks between the parties under his guidance to which the respondent had agreed, however, for lack of mutual settlement the same was dropped. Thereafter, proceeding under Order VIII Rule 10 CPC against the appellant and ex-parte against respondent Nos. 2 & 3, the award was passed. It was emphasized that as the appellant has acquiesced to the arbitration by the arbitrator and no material has been disclosed/particulars have been indicated either before the arbitrator or before the Commercial Court or even before this Court pertaining to his alleged disability, the allegations pertaining to bias of the arbitrator are absolutely baseless. It was submitted that the judgments cited have no application to the present case as the same pertain to appointment of arbitrator under Section 11(6) of the Act. Submissions were also made that provisions of Section 12(5) of the Act are as proviso to Section 11(2), wherein parties are free to agree on a procedure for appointing arbitrator or arbitrators, however, the arbitrator is required to comply with the requirements of Section 12 of the Act and therefore, the plea raised has no substance. Reliance was placed on Lombardi Engineering Limited Vs. Uttarakhand Jal Vidyut Nigam Limited : Arbitration Petition No. 43 of 2022 decided on 06.11.2023.
12. We have considered the submissions made by counsel for the parties and have perused the material available on record.
13. The arbitration clause, which is the subject matter of the dispute, reads as under:
"12. DISPUTE RESOLUTION Any dispute arising out of or in relation to the Loan, including this Agreement and/or Loan Documents shall be referred for arbitration to the sole arbitrator appointed by the Lender. The parties agree and confirm that the arbitration proceeding shall be conducted in accordance with the Arbitration & conciliation Act, 1996 and the rules applicable Business Loan/Loan against Property thereto. The venue of the arbitration shall be at Mathura or capital of the state where the borrower resides, at the sole discretion of Lender and the arbitration proceeding shall be conducted in English Language. The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding on the Parties. Pending the passing of final award, the Borrower shall be liable Business Loan/Loan against Property to perform all its obligations Business Loan/Loan against Property under this Agreement."
(emphasis supplied) A perusal of the above arbitration clause/agreement would reveal that the same provides that dispute arising out of or in relation to the Loan, including the Agreement shall be referred for arbitration to the sole arbitrator 'appointed by the Lender'.
14. The issue which arises for consideration in the present appeal is whether the award impugned and the order passed by the Commercial Court are liable to be set aside on the ground that the arbitrator was appointed unilaterally by the respondent and was thus, ineligible by virtue of Section 12 of the Act as well as the law laid down by Hon'ble Supreme Court to conduct the arbitral proceedings and deliver the award impugned.
15. The issue, pertaining to the status of agreement/award, where in terms of provisions of Section 11(2) of the Act, which provides for parties to agree on a procedure for appointing the arbitrator or arbitrators and an agreement has been entered into, whereby the power is unilaterally given to one party to the agreement, has drawn the attention of the Hon'ble Supreme Court, wherein Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Perkins Eastman Architects (supra) has, inter alia, laid down as under:
"20. We thus have two categories of cases. The first, similar to the one dealt with in TRF Limited Vs. Energo Engg. Projects Ltd., (2017) 8 SCC 377 where the Managing Director himself is named as an arbitrator with an additional power to appoint any other person as an arbitrator. In the second category, the Managing Director is not to act as an arbitrator himself but is empowered or authorised to appoint any other person of his choice or discretion as an arbitrator. If, in the first category of cases, the Managing Director was found incompetent, it was because of the interest that he would be said to be having in the outcome or result of the dispute. The element of invalidity would thus be directly relatable to and arise from the interest that he would be having in such outcome or decision. If that be the test, similar invalidity would always arise and spring even in the second category of cases. If the interest that he has in the outcome of the dispute, is taken to be the basis for the possibility of bias, it will always be present irrespective of whether the matter stands under the first or second category of cases. We are conscious that if such deduction is drawn from the decision of this Court in TRF Limited, all cases having clauses similar to that with which we are presently concerned, a party to the agreement would be disentitled to make any appointment of an Arbitrator on its own and it would always be available to argue that a party or an official or an authority having interest in the dispute would be disentitled to make appointment of an Arbitrator.
21. But, in our view that has to be the logical deduction from TRF Limited. Paragraph 50 of the decision shows that this Court was concerned with the issue, "whether the Managing Director, after becoming ineligible by operation of law, is he still eligible to nominate an Arbitrator". The ineligibility referred to therein, was as a result of operation of law, in that a person having an interest in the dispute or in the outcome or decision thereof, must not only be ineligible to act as an arbitrator but must also not be eligible to appoint anyone else as an arbitrator and that such person cannot and should not have any role in charting out any course to the dispute resolution by having the power to appoint an arbitrator. The next sentences in the paragraph, further show that cases where both the parties could nominate respective arbitrators of their choice were found to be completely a different situation. The reason is clear that whatever advantage a party may derive by nominating an arbitrator of its choice would get counter balanced by equal power with the other party. But, in a case where only one party has a right to appoint a sole arbitrator, its choice will always have an element of exclusivity in determining or charting the course for dispute resolution. Naturally, the person who has an interest in the outcome or decision of the dispute must not have the power to appoint a sole arbitrator. That has to be taken as the essence of the amendments brought in by the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015 (Act 3 of 2016) and recognised by the decision of this Court in TRF Limited."
16. From the above, it would be seen that Hon'ble Supreme Court was clearly of the opinion that where only one party has a right to appoint the sole arbitrator, its choice will always have an element of exclusivity in determining or charting the course for dispute resolution and the person, who has an interest in the outcome of the dispute, must not have the power to appoint a sole arbitrator and the same was taken as the essence of the amendments brought in the year 2015.
17. Hon'ble Supreme Court in Bharat Broadband Network Limited Vs. United Telecoms Limited : (2019) 6 SCR 97 held that a unilaterally appointed arbitrator is de jure ineligible to perform his function and his mandate is automatically terminated under Section 14(1)(a) of the Act. It was further held that any prior agreement to do away with this ineligibility would be wiped out by the non-obstante clause in Section 12(5) and the same only be cured through an express waiver. The Hon'ble Supreme Court observed as under:
"15. Section 12(5), on the other hand, is a new provision which relates to the de jure inability of an arbitrator to act as such. Under this provision, any prior agreement to the contrary is wiped out by the non- obstante clause in Section 12(5) the moment any person whose relationship with the parties or the counsel or the subject matter of the dispute falls under the Seventh Schedule. The sub-section then declares that such person shall be "ineligible" to be appointed as arbitrator. The only way in which this ineligibility can be removed is by the proviso, which again is a special provision which states that parties may, subsequent to disputes having arisen between them, waive the applicability of Section 12(5) by an express agreement in writing. What is clear, therefore, is that where, under any agreement between the parties, a person falls within any of the categories set out in the Seventh Schedule, he is, as a matter of law, ineligible to be appointed as an arbitrator. The only way in which this ineligibility can be removed, again, in law, is that parties may after disputes have arisen between them, waive the applicability of this sub-section by an "express agreement in writing". Obviously, the "express agreement in writing" has reference to a person who is interdicted by the Seventh Schedule, but who is stated by parties (after the disputes have arisen between them) to be a person in whom they have faith notwithstanding the fact that such person is interdicted by the Seventh Schedule.
* * *
17. The scheme of Sections 12, 13 and 14, therefore, is that where an arbitrator makes a disclosure in writing which is likely to give justifiable doubts as to his independence or impartiality, the appointment of such arbitrator may be challenged under Sections 12(1) to 12(4) read with Section 13. However, where such person becomes "ineligible" to be appointed as an arbitrator, there is no question of challenge to such arbitrator, before such arbitrator. In such a case, i.e., a case which falls under Section 12(5), Section 14(1)(a) of the Act gets attracted inasmuch as the arbitrator becomes, as a matter of law (i.e., de jure), unable to perform his functions under Section 12(5), being ineligible to be appointed as an arbitrator. This being so, his mandate automatically terminates, and he shall then be substituted by another arbitrator under Section 14(1) itself. It is only if a controversy occurs concerning whether he has become de jure unable to perform his functions as such, that a party has to apply to the Court to decide on the termination of the mandate, unless otherwise agreed by the parties. Thus, in all Section 12(5) cases, there is no challenge procedure to be availed of. If an arbitrator continues as such, being de jure unable to perform his functions, as he falls within any of the categories mentioned in Section 12(5), read with the Seventh Schedule, a party may apply to the Court, which will then decide on whether his mandate has terminated. ........."
18. From the judgments in the case of Perkins Eastman Architects (supra), which followed TRF Limited Vs. Energo Engineering Projects Limited : (2017) 8 SCC 377 and Bharat Broadband Network Limited (supra), it is apparent that unilateral appointment of the arbitrator by a party, who has some interest in the final outcome, is not permissible. Provisions of Section 12(5), inter alia, provides that notwithstanding any prior agreement to the contrary, any person, whose relationship with the parties or counsel or the subject-matter of the dispute falls under any of the categories specified in the Seventh Schedule, shall be ineligible to be appointed as an arbitrator. The only exception is provided in the proviso that parties may, subsequent to disputes having arisen between them, waive the applicability of the said provision by an express agreement in writing. Once the provisions of Section 12(5) have been interpreted by Hon'ble Supreme Court having application to clause in agreement providing for unilateral appointment of arbitrators, unless in those circumstances, after the dispute has arisen, a written consent is given by the other party, arbitrator appointed would be ineligible.
19. In the present case, specific objections were raised before the arbitrator regarding his unilateral appointment, however, the same were rejected by him as barred by limitation under Section 13(2) of the Act. Reliance placed by learned counsel for the respondent on the purported application made under Section 30(1) of the Act to the arbitrator, as having acquiesced to his appointment, cannot be accepted for the simple reason that the proviso to Section 12(5) of the Act requires an express agreement in writing subsequent to disputes having arisen, which is not the case of the respondent.
20. Once it is found, based on the judgments of Hon'ble Supreme Court, that the unilateral appointment of the arbitrator by the respondent is illegal and void, as to what would be the consequence of the said illegality on the arbitral award, is the question.
21. In Ram Kumar Vs. Shriram Transport Finance Co. Limited : 2022 OnLine Del 4268, a Division Bench of Delhi High Court, while deciding an application under Section 34 of the Act in a case where the award was passed by a unilaterally appointed arbitrator, held that an arbitral award passed by a person ineligible to work as an arbitrator cannot be considered as an arbitral award under the provisions of the Act. It was laid down as under:
"8. Clearly, an award rendered by a person who is ineligible to act as an arbitrator would be of little value; it cannot be considered as an arbitral award under the A&C Act. While it is permissible for the parties to agree to waive the ineligibility of an arbitrator, the proviso to Section 12(5)of the A&C Act makes it clear that such an agreement requires to be in writing. In Proddatur Cable TV Digi Services v. Siti Cable Network Limited (2020) 267 DLT 51, the learned Single Judge of this Court, following the decision in TRF Ltd. v. Energo Engineering Projects Ltd. (supra) and Perkins Eastman Architects DPC v. HSCC (India) Ltd. (supra), held that unilateral appointment of an arbitrator by a party is impermissible."
22. So far as the judgment in Lombardi Engineering Limited (supra) cited by learned counsel for the respondent is concerned, the same, instead of supporting the cause of the respondent, reiterates the law laid down in the case of Perkins Eastman Architects (supra) inasmuch as the arbitration clause in the said case provided for referring the dispute to sole arbitrator to be appointed by the Principal Secretary/Secretary, Irrigation Department, Uttrakhand and the issue framed by Hon'ble Supreme Court pertained to whether the said clause was in conflict with the decision in the case of Perkins Eastman Architects (supra). Hon'ble Supreme Court ordered that the condition regarding appointment by the Principal Secretary/Secretary, Irrigation was required to be ignored and the Hon'ble Court appointed an independent arbitrator.
23. Consequently, the award which has been passed by a de jure ineligible arbitrator suffers from patent illegality and cannot be sustained.
24. In view of the above discussion, the appeal is allowed. The judgment dated 06.11.2023, passed by Commercial Court No. 2, Agra in Misc. Arbitration Case No. 5 of 2023 is set aside. The application filed by the appellant under Section 34 of the Act is allowed. The award impugned dated 06.09.2022 passed by the sole arbitrator is set aside.
25. It is, however, made clear that since the impugned award has been set aside on the ground of ineligibility of the learned Arbitrator to act as an Arbitrator, parties are not precluded from re-agitating their claims afresh, before another Arbitral Tribunal.
26. No order as to costs.
Order Date :- 13.08.24.
 
P.Sri.
 
(Vikas Budhwar, J)      (Arun Bhansali, CJ)
 



 




 

 
 
    
      
  
 