Take notes as you read a judgment using our Virtual Legal Assistant and get email alerts whenever a new judgment matches your query (Query Alert Service). Try out our Premium Member Services -- Sign up today and get free trial for one month.
Orissa High Court
Binaya Kumar Naik vs Sanjay Kumar Naik & on 12 August, 2024
              IN THE HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK


                            W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024
                             (In the matter of an application under
                         Article 227 of the Constitution of India, 1950)



            Binaya Kumar Naik                         .......       Petitioner

                                               -Versus-

            Sanjay Kumar Naik &
            another                                   .......      Opp. Parties

                  Advocate for the parties
                  For Petitioner                           : Mr. B.C. Panda,
                                                             Advocate

                  For Opp. Party No.1                      : Mr. S. Dash,
                                                             Advocate

                  For Opp. Party No.2                      : Mr. S.K. Mohanty,
                                                             Advocate

                                    ----------------------------


           CORAM: JUSTICE SANJAY KUMAR MISHRA
       ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       Date of Hearing: 08.08.2024                 Date of Judgment: 12.08.2024
       ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

S.K. Mishra, J.      The Writ Petition has been preferred challenging

       the order dated 18.07.2024 in ARBP No.02 of 2024 passed by

       the District Judge, Cuttack, vide which it was ordered that

       the said Court lacks jurisdiction over the subject to entertain

       the application filed under Section 9 of the Arbitration and
 Conciliation Act, 1996, shortly hereinafter, 'the Act, 1996' and

ordered to transfer the matter to the Commercial Court,

Cuttack.

2.           The factual matrix, which led to filing of the

present Writ Petition, is that on 17.05.2022, the Petitioner

and the Opposite Party Nos.1 & 2 entered into a Partnership

Agreement for smooth running of the movie business

inherited from their father in the name and style as M/s.

Brajaraj Movies. The said partnership agreement was reduced

to writing in shape of Deed of Agreement and subsequently

registered with the I.G.R., Odisha, Cuttack on 31.05.2022,

vide registration No.720202200555. The Opposite Party No.1,

instead of extending his cooperation for smooth running of

the business of the firm, allegedly violated the terms of the

said Deed of Agreement and committed breach of trust, as

has been detailed in the Writ Petition. When the Petitioner

tried to contact the Opposite Party No.1 to ascertain the fact

and resolve the issue amicably, the Opposite Party No.1 did

not come forward to resolve the said dispute. Hence, the

Petitioner and the Opposite Party No.2 were constrained to

lodge an F.I.R. against the Opposite Party No.1 in Purighat




W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                              Page 2 of 36
 P.S. on 05.02.2024. They also issued a legal notice on

07.02.2024 for appointment of an Arbitrator in terms of

Clause-15 of the Deed of Agreement dated 17.05.2022, which

was received by the Opposite Party No.1 on 08.01.2024. The

Petitioner and the Opposite Party No.2 thereby requested to

extend consent within seven days from the date of receipt of

the said notice for appointment of an Arbitrator to arbitrate

and resolve the said dispute. However, the Opposite Party

No.1, after receipt of the said legal notice dated 07.02.2024

for appointment of an Arbitrator, gave a reply vide letter dated

22.02.2024 expressing his unwillingness for giving his

consent for appointment of the Arbitrator to resolve the said

dispute. Finding no other way out, the Petitioner preferred an

application under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 before this

Court praying for appointment of an Arbitrator in terms of

Clause 15 of the Deed of Agreement dated 17.05.2022, which

has been registered as ARBP No.09 of 2024 and the same is

still pending for consideration before this Court. As the

Opposite Party No.1 has failed to perform his duties in

contravention of terms and conditions of Deed of Agreement,

the Petitioner, pending consideration of his application for




W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                              Page 3 of 36
 appointment of an Arbitrator by this Court, was being

constraint to approach the District Judge, Cuttack by filing

an application under Section 9 of the Act, 1996 for grant of an

order of interim injunction against the Opposite Party No.1,

thereby restraining the Opposite Party No.1 or his agents from

telecasting the movies and songs of M/s. Brajaraj Movies in

any form through television media, satellite broadcasting,

F.M. channels, mobile operator, cinema halls, DVD & You

Tube Channels and to restrain him from proceeding with the

production of the Movie "I Love You-2" and also using the title

and logo of M/s. Brajaraj Movies in any manner till the

dispute is resolved through arbitration.

3.           The said petition, registered as ARBP No.02 of

2024, was admitted and notice was issued to the Opposite

Parties. Being noticed, the Opposite Party No.1 duly appeared

and filed objection/show cause on 27.06.2024. On the very

day, the District Judge, Cuttack was pleased to pass an

interim order restraining the Opposite Party No.1 from

proceeding with the release of the film "I Love You-2" and

using the logo and banner of M/s. Brajaraj Movies till the

next date and the matter stood adjourned to 11.07.2024. On




W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                             Page 4 of 36
 the said date, the Petitioner filed another application for grant

of interim order as well as an application for continuance of

the interim order dated 27.06.2024 whereas, the Opposite

Party No.1 filed applications under Order 7, Rule11 of C.P.C.

for rejection of the ARBP No.02 of 2024 and for vacating the

stay order dated 27.06.2024. However, the District Judge,

Cuttack was pleased to extend the interim order and posted

the matter to 18.07.2024. On the said date, the Petitioner

filed his Reply in response to the application filed by the

Opposite Party No.1 under Order 7 Rule, 11 of C.P.C. so also

to the application for vacation of stay. However, the District

Judge, Cuttack, though extended the interim order till the

next date, but on a wrong noting and misconstruing the

provisions enshrined under the Act, 1996 as well as the

Commercial Courts Act, 2015, shortly hereinafter, 'CC Act,

2015' and relying on the Judgment of the Supreme Court in

Jaycee     Housing         Pvt.   Ltd.   &   others   Vrs.   Registrar

(General), Orissa High Court, Cuttack & others, reported in

2022 Live Law (SC) 860, transferred the case to the Court of

the Senior Civil Judge (Commercial Court), Cuttack on the

ground of lack of jurisdiction. While passing the said order,




W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                                     Page 5 of 36
 the District Judge, Cuttack also directed to dispose of the said

matter on or before 23.07.2024 on merit in accordance with

law, with an observation not to extend the interim order in a

causal manner. Hence this Writ Petition.

4.           The said order passed by the District Judge,

Cuttack dated 18.07.2024 passed in ARBP No.02 of 2024 has

been challenged on the following grounds:

             (i)     The same is contrary to the provisions of law

                     enshrined under the Act, 1996 as well as the

                     CC Act, 2015.

             (ii)    The Court below completely misconstrued

                     the decision rendered by the Supreme Court

                     in Jaycee Housing Pvt. Ltd. (supra).

             (iii)   The Court below misconstrued the facts and

                     circumstances of the Petitioner's case and

                     wrongly rendered a finding that the case

                     involved   is   pertaining   to   violation   of

                     intellectual property right and loss and the

                     valuation of the same appears to be more

                     than five lakhs, forgetting the fact that the

                     Petitioner has filed   the application under




W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                                  Page 6 of 36
                     Section 9 of the Act, 1996 for grant of interim

                    relief till disposal of the dispute through

                    arbitration in which there is no specified

                    value, as envisaged under section 3 of the

                    Commercial Courts Act, 2015.

             (iv)   The order passed by the District Judge,

                    Cuttack is also contrary to Section 6 of the

                    CC Act, 2015 which mandates that the CC

                    Act shall have jurisdiction to try all suits and

                    applications relating to a commercial dispute

                    of a specified value, though, in the instant

                    case, there is no specified value as on the

                    date.

             (v)    The impugned order is also in contravention

                    to the provisions enshrined under Sections

                    10, 12 & 15 of the CC Act, 2015 and section

                    2(1)(e) of the Act, 1996.

             (vi)   Since the dispute has no specified value, as

                    required under the provisions of the CC Act,

                    2015, the application under Section 9 of the

                    Act, 1996 cannot come under the definition




W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                                  Page 7 of 36
                    of Section 2(b),(c), vii, xv and xvii of the CC

                   Act, 2015, as referred to in the impugned

                   order, and the said order suffers from

                   illegalities and infirmities and is liable to be

                   quashed.

5.           Reiterating the grounds agitated in the Writ

Petition, Mr. Panda, learned Counsel for the Petitioner,

drawing attention of this Court to the provisions enshrined

under section 2 (1)(e) of the Act, 1996 so also under Section 6,

10 and 15 of the C.C Act, 2015 submitted that the District

Judge, Cuttack, being the Principal Civil Court, is only

competent to hear the application filed under section 9 of the

Act, 1996. The section 9 application being in the nature of

interlocutory application, having no valuation, the District

Judge should not have transferred the said application to the

Commercial Court, Cuttack, which lacks jurisdiction to try

the said petition. In view of the provisions enshrined under

section 6 read with section 15 of the CC Act, 2015, only suits

and applications, including applications under the Act, 1996

relating to a commercial dispute of a specified value can only

be tried by the Commercial Court. The specified value, as per




W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                                Page 8 of 36
 the amended provisions under the CC Act, 2015, being

Rs.3,00,000/- and admittedly the section 9 application filed

by the Petitioner having no valuation and with a prayer for

interim injunction, cannot be heard by the           Commercial

Court. Only the District Judge, Cuttack, being the Principal

Civil Court, is competent to hear and decide the said

application. Hence, the Impugned order dated 18.07.2024

passed in ARBP No.02 of 2024, being contrary to the legal

provisions enshrined under the Act, 1996 so also the CC Act,

2015, deserves interference and be quashed and direction be

given to the District Judge, Cuttack to hear the said

application filed under section 9 of the Act, 1996 and dispose

of the same on merit in the interest of justice.

6.           To   substantiate   his   submission,   Mr.   Panda,

learned Counsel for the Petitioner, relying on the judgment of

the Supreme Court in Jaycee Housing Pvt. Ltd. (supra),

submitted that though the District Judge, Cuttack relied on

the said judgment in the impugned order, but misconstrued

the said decision of the Supreme Court. Mr. Panda submitted

that, vide the said decision, it was never held by the Supreme

Court that all the cases under sections 9, 14, and 24 of the




W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                               Page 9 of 36
 Act, 1996 have to be filed and adjudicated by the Commercial

Court irrespective of the valuation. Mr. Panda, relying on

para-10 of the said judgment of the Supreme Court,

submitted that it was also held vide the said judgment that as

per section 15 of the CC Act, 2015, all suits and applications,

including applications under the Act, 1996, relating to a

commercial dispute of "specified value" shall have to be

transferred to the Commercial Court.

7.           Mr. Panda, learned Counsel, referring to para-15 of

the order of the Madhya Pradesh High Court at Jabalpur,

reported in 2021 SCC OnLine MP 457 (Yashwardhan

Raghuwanshi Vs. District & Sessions Judge and Another)

submitted that the Court of District Judge, being the Principal

Civil Court of original jurisdiction, would be competent to

decide the matters/disputes filed under the provisions of

section 9 , 14, 34 and 36 of the Act, 1996 so also under the

provisions of the CC Act, 2015, regardless of the value of

claim and it can only distribute such work amongst any of the

Additional District Judges under his supervision, but not to

any Court of Civil Judge Class-I or Senior Civil Judge, or any

Court of Small Causes.




W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                             Page 10 of 36
 8.           In response to the argument advanced by Mr.

Panda, learned Counsel for the Petitioner, Mr. Dash, learned

Counsel for Opposite Party No.1, drawing attention of this

Court to the definition of "Commercial Court", "commercial

dispute" and "Specified Value", as defined         under sections

2(1)(b), 2(1)(c) & 2(1)(i) respectively, so also section 3(3), 6 and

10(3) of the C.C. Act, 2015, submitted that in view of the

definition of commercial dispute under the CC Act, 2015 read

with section 6 and 10(3) of the CC Act, 2015, all applications

and appeals, arising out of such arbitration under the

provisions of the Act, 1996, that would ordinarily lie before

any principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction in a district

(not being High Court), has to be filed in and heard and

disposed of by the Commercial Court exercising territorial

jurisdiction over such arbitration, where such Commercial

Court has been constituted. Since ARBP No.02 of 2024 has

been preferred under section 9 of the Act, 1996, instead of

filing such an application before the Commercial Court,

Cuttack, the Petitioner wrongly filed such an application

before the District Judge, Cuttack. Hence, the Opposite Party

No.1, in addition to filing an application for vacation of stay,




W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                                Page 11 of 36
 also filed an application under Order-7, Rule 11 of C.P.C. for

rejection of the said petition on the ground of lack of

jurisdiction of the District Judge, Cuttack so also on some

other grounds. However, the District Judge, Cuttack, instead

of hearing such application first, ordered for disposing of all

the applications together with section 9 application. However,

the District Judge ultimately thought it prudent to transfer

the said proceeding to the Commercial Court, in terms of the

legal provisions under the CC Act, 2015, referring to the

Judgment of the Supreme Court in Jaycee Housing Pvt. Ltd.

(supra).

9.           Mr. Dash, learned Counsel for the Opposite Party

No.1, drawing attention of this Court to the legal provisions

under Section 10(3) of the CC Act, 2015, submitted that any

application under the Act, 1996, pertaining to a commercial

dispute, has to be moved before the Commercial Court after

formation of the Commercial Court and not before the

Principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction in a district and

the District Judge, Cuttack should have returned the

application filed under Section 9 of the Act, 1996 to the

Petitioner. However, on being so pointed out by his client, the




W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                             Page 12 of 36
 District Judge, Cuttack ordered for transfer of the said

proceeding to the Commercial Court, Cuttack. There being no

infirmity in the impugned order and the same having been

passed in terms of the legal provisions under the CC Act,

2015, the Writ Petition deserves to be dismissed.

10.          From the pleadings made in the Writ Petition,

grounds urged therein to challenge the impugned order so

also submissions made at the Bar, the following points

emerge to be answered in the present Writ Petition.

             (i)    In absence of any valuation, in an application

                    filed under section 9 of the Act, 1996,

                    whether the Commercial Court, constituted

                    under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the CC

                    Act,   2015,     is   competent   to   hear     such

                    application?

             (ii)   Whether the District Judge was justified to

                    transfer the section 9 application, registered

                    as ARBP No.02 of 2024, to the Court of

                    Senior   Civil    Judge    (Commercial        Court),

                    Cuttack?




W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                                   Page 13 of 36
 11.          Since both points are interrelated, the same are

dealt with together for the sake of brevity and clarity. Before

answering the points as detailed above, this Court deems it

appropriate to reproduce below section 2(1)(e)(i) and 9 of the

Act, 1996 and Section 2(1)(b),(c),(i), 3,6,10,12, 15 and 21 of

the CC Act, 2015 for ready reference:

       "Section 2(1)(e)(i) & 9 of the Arbitration Act, 1996:

       2.    Definitions-(1) In this Part, unless the context
       otherwise requires,-
       (e) "Court" means -
             (i) in the case of an arbitration other than
       international commercial arbitration, the principal Civil
       Court of original jurisdiction in a district, and includes the
       High Court in exercise of its ordinary original civil
       jurisdiction, having jurisdiction to decide the questions
       forming the subject matter of the arbitration if the same
       had been the subject matter of a suit, but does not include
       any Civil Court of a grade inferior to such principal Civil
       Court, or any Court of Small Causes;

       9. Interim measures, etc., by Court.--(1) A party may,
       before or during arbitral proceedings or at any time after
       the making of the arbitral award but before it is enforced
       in accordance with section 36, apply to a court--
             (i) for the appointment of a guardian for a minor or
                 person of unsound mind for the purposes of
                 arbitral proceedings; or

             (ii) for an interim measure of protection in respect of
                  any of the following matters, namely:--

                 (a)   the preservation, interim custody or sale of
                       any goods which are the subject-matter of
                       the arbitration agreement;

                 (b)   securing the amount in dispute in the
                       arbitration;

                 (c)   the detention, preservation or inspection of
                       any property or thing which is the subject-
                       matter of the dispute in arbitration, or as to



W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                                        Page 14 of 36
                        which any question may arise therein and
                       authorising for any of the aforesaid
                       purposes any person to enter upon any land
                       or building in the possession of any party,
                       or authorising any samples to be taken or
                       any observation to be made, or experiment
                       to be tried, which may be necessary or
                       expedient for the purpose of obtaining full
                       information or evidence;

                 (d)   interim injunction or the appointment of a
                       receiver;
                 (e)   such other interim measure of protection as
                       may appear to the Court to be just and
                       convenient, and the Court shall have the
                       same power for making orders as it has for
                       the purpose of, and in relation to, any
                       proceedings before it.

             (2) Where, before the commencement of the arbitral
       proceedings, a Court passes an order for any interim
       measure of protection under sub-section (1), the arbitral
       proceedings shall be commenced within a period of ninety
       days from the date of such order or within such further
       time as the Court may determine.

             (3) Once the arbitral tribunal has been constituted,
       the Court shall not entertain an application under sub-
       section (1), unless the Court finds that circumstances exist
       which may not render the remedy provided under section
       17 efficacious.]

       Sections 2(1)(b),(c),(i), 3, 6, 10, 15 & 21 of the
       Commercial Courts Act, 2015:

             2. Definitions.--(1)
             (b) "Commercial Court" means the Commercial
       Court constituted under sub-section (1) of section 3;
             (c)    "commercial dispute" means a dispute
       arising out of--
             (i)    ordinary transactions of merchants, bankers,
                    financiers and traders such as those relating
                    to     mercantile     documents,       including
                    enforcement and interpretation of such
                    documents;
             (ii)   export or import of merchandise or services;
             (iii)  issues relating to admiralty and maritime law;
             (iv)   transactions relating to aircraft, aircraft
                    engines, aircraft equipment and helicopters,




W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                                       Page 15 of 36
                       including sales, leasing and financing of the
                      same;
             (v)      carriage of goods;
             (vi)     construction and infrastructure contracts,
                      including tenders;
             (vii)   agreements        relating     to   immovable
                     property       used exclusively in trade or
                     commerce;
             (viii) franchising agreements;
             (ix)     distribution and licensing agreements;
             (x)      management and consultancy agreements;
             (xi)     joint venture agreements;
             (xii)    shareholders agreements;
             (xiii) subscription and investment agreements
                      pertaining to the services industry including
                      outsourcing services and financial services;
             (xiv) mercantile agency and mercantile usage;
             (xv)     partnership agreements;
             (xvi) technology development agreements;
             (xvii) intellectual property rights relating to
                      registered and unregistered trademarks,
                      copyright, patent, design, domain names,
                      geographical           indications         and
                     semiconductor integrated circuits;
             (xviii) agreements for sale of goods or provision of
                      services;
             (xix) exploitation of oil and gas reserves or other
                      natural resources including electromagnetic
                      spectrum;
             (xx)     insurance and re-insurance;
             (xxi) contracts of agency relating to any of the
                      above; and
             (xxii) such other commercial disputes as may be
                      notified by the Central Government.
             Explanation.--A commercial dispute shall not cease
       to be a commercial dispute merely because--
             (a)     it also involves action for recovery of
                     immovable property or for realisation of monies
                     out of immovable property given as security or
                     involves any other relief pertaining to
                     immovable property;
             (b)     one of the contracting parties is the State or
                     any of its agencies or instrumentalities, or a
                     private body carrying out public functions;

       (i)  "Specified Value", in relation to a commercial
       dispute, shall mean the value of the subject-matter
       in respect of a suit as determined in accordance
       with section 12 1[which shall not be less than three




W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                                       Page 16 of 36
        lakh rupees] or such higher value, as may be notified
       by the Central Government.

              3. Constitution of Commercial Courts (1) The
       State Government, may after consultation with the
       concerned High Court, by notification, constitute such
       number of Commercial Courts at District level, as it may
       deem necessary for the purpose of exercising the
       jurisdiction and powers conferred on those courts under
       this Act:
              Provided that with respect to the High Courts having
       ordinary original civil jurisdiction, the State Government
       may, after consultation with the concerned High Court, by
       notification, constitute Commercial Courts at the District
       Judge level:
              Provided further that with respect to a territory over
       which the High Courts have ordinary original civil
       jurisdiction,   the     State    Government      may,      by
       notification, specify such pecuniary value which
       shall not be less than three lakh rupees and not
       more than the pecuniary jurisdiction exercisable by
       the District Courts, as it may consider necessary.]

             (1A) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act,
       the State Government may, after consultation with the
       concerned High Court, by notification, specify such
       pecuniary value which shall not be less than three
       lakh rupees or such higher value, for whole or part of
       the State, as it may consider necessary.]

             (2) The State Government shall, after consultation,
       with the concerned High Court specify, by notification, the
       local limits of the area to which the jurisdiction of a
       Commercial Court shall extend and may, from time to time,
       increase, reduce or alter such limits.
             (3) The [State Government may], with the concurrence
       of the Chief Justice of the High Court appoint one or more
       persons having experience in dealing with commercial
       disputes to be the Judge or Judges, of a [Commercial Court
       either at the level of District Judge or a court below the
       level of a District Judge].

             6. Jurisdiction of Commercial Court.--The
       Commercial Court shall have jurisdiction to try all suits
       and applications relating to a commercial dispute of a
       Specified Value arising out of the entire territory of the
       State over which it has been vested territorial jurisdiction.
             Explanation.--For the purposes of this section, a
       commercial dispute shall be considered to arise out of the




W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                                       Page 17 of 36
        entire territory of the State over which a Commercial Court
       has been vested jurisdiction, if the suit or application
       relating to such commercial dispute has been instituted as
       per the provisions of sections 16 to 20 of the Code of Civil
       Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908).

           10. Jurisdiction in respect of arbitration
       matters.- Where the subject matter of an arbitration is a
       commercial dispute of a specified value and--
              (1) If such arbitration is an international
                   commercial arbitration, all applications or
                   appeals arising out of such arbitration under
                   the provisions of the Arbitration and
                   Conciliation Act, 1996 (26 of 1996) that have
                   been filed in a High Court, shall be heard
                   and disposed of by the Commercial Division
                   where such Commercial Division has been
                   constituted in such High Court.
               (2)   If such arbitration is other than an
                     international commercial arbitration, all
                     applications or appeals arising out of such
                     arbitration under the provisions of the
                     Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (26 of
                     1996) that have been filed on the original
                     side of the High Court, shall be heard and
                     disposed of by the Commercial Division
                     where such Commercial Division has been
                     constituted in such High Court.
               (3)   If such arbitration is other than an
                     international commercial arbitration, all
                     applications or appeals arising out of
                     such arbitration under the provisions of
                     the Arbitration and Conciliation Act,
                     1996 (26 of 1996) that would ordinarily
                     lie before any principal civil court of
                     original jurisdiction in a district (not
                     being a High Court) shall be filed in, and
                     heard     and   disposed    of    by    the
                     Commercial Court exercising territorial
                     jurisdiction over such arbitration where
                     such Commercial Court has been
                     constituted.

             12. Determination of Specified Value.--(1) The
       Specified Value of the subject-matter of the commercial
       dispute in a suit, appeal or application shall be determined
       in the following manner:--
                (a) where the relief sought in a suit or
                     application is for recovery of money, the



W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                                      Page 18 of 36
                      money sought to be recovered in the suit or
                     application inclusive of interest, if any,
                     computed up to the date of filing of the suit or
                     application, as the case may be, shall be
                     taken into account for determining such
                     Specified Value;

               (b)    where the relief sought in a suit, appeal or
                      application relates to movable property or to
                      a right therein, the market value of the
                      movable property as on the date of filing of
                      the suit, appeal or application, as the case
                      may be, shall be taken into account for
                      determining such Specified Value;
                (c)   where the relief sought in a suit, appeal or
                      application relates to immovable property or
                      to a right therein, the market value of the
                      immovable property, as on the date of filing
                      of the suit, appeal or application, as the case
                      may be, shall be taken into account for
                      determining Specified Value; 1[and]
                (d) where the relief sought in a suit, appeal
                      or application relates to any other
                      intangible right, the market value of the
                      said rights as estimated by the plaintiff
                      shall be taken into account for
                      determining Specified Value;
             (2) The aggregate value of the claim and
       counterclaim, if any as set out in the statement of claim
       and the counterclaim, if any, in an arbitration of a
       commercial dispute shall be the basis for determining
       whether such arbitration is subject to the jurisdiction of a
       Commercial Division, Commercial Appellate Division or
       Commercial Court, as the case may be.
             (3) No appeal or civil revision application under
       section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of
       1908), as the case may be, shall lie from an order of a
       Commercial Division or Commercial Court finding that it
       has jurisdiction to hear a commercial dispute under this
       Act.
             15. Transfer of Pending Cases-- (1) All suits and
       applications, including applications under the Arbitration
       and Conciliation Act, 1996 (26 of 1996), relating to a
       commercial dispute of a Specified Value pending in a
       High Court where a Commercial Division has been
       constituted, shall be transferred to the Commercial
       Division.
             (2) All suits and applications, including applications
       under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (26 of
       1996), relating to a commercial dispute of a specified



W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                                        Page 19 of 36
        value pending in any civil court in any district or area in
       respect of which a Commercial Court has been constituted,
       shall be transferred to such Commercial Court:

             Provided that no suit or application where the final
       judgment has been reserved by the court prior to the
       constitution of the Commercial Division or the Commercial
       Court shall be transferred either under subsection (1) or
       subsection (2)
             (3) Where any suit or application, including an
       application under the Arbitration and Conciliation
       Act, 1996 (26 of 1996), relating to a commercial
       dispute of specified value shall stand transferred to
       the Commercial Division or Commercial Court under
       subsection (1) or subsection (2), the provisions of this
       Act shall apply to those procedures that were not
       complete at the time of transfer.
             (4) The Commercial Division or Commercial Court, as
       the case may be, may hold case management hearings in
       respect of such transferred suit or application in order to
       prescribe new timelines or issue such further directions as
       may be necessary for a speedy and efficacious disposal of
       such suit or application in accordance [with Order XVA] of
       the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908):

             Provided that the proviso to sub rule (1) of Rule 1 of
       Order V of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908)
       shall not apply to such transferred suit or application and
       the court may, in its discretion, prescribe a new time
       period within which the written statement shall be filed.
             (5) In the event that such suit or application is not
       transferred in the manner specified in subsection (1),
       subsection (2) or subsection (3), the Commercial Appellate
       Division of the High Court may, on the application of any of
       the parties to the suit, withdraw such suit or application
       from the court before which it is pending and transfer the
       same for trial or disposal to the Commercial Division or
       Commercial Court, as the case may be, having territorial
       jurisdiction over such suit, and such order of transfer shall
       be final and binding.
             21. Act to have overriding effect --Save as
       otherwise provided, the provisions of this Act shall have
       effect, notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith
       contained in any other law for the time being in force or in
       any instrument having effect by virtue of any law for the
       time being in force other than this Act."

                                             (Emphasis supplied)




W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                                       Page 20 of 36
 12.          Though "Court" is defined under Section 2(1)(e) of

the Act, 1996 to be the principal Civil Court of original

jurisdiction in the district, but in the provisions enshrined

under Section 10(3) of the CC Act, 2015, it has been clearly

enumerated that, where the subject matter of an arbitration is

a "commercial dispute" of "Specified Value" and such

arbitration is other than the         international commercial

arbitration, all applications or appeals arising out of such

arbitration under the provisions of the Act, 1996, that would

ordinarily lie before any principal Civil Court of original

jurisdiction in a district (not being a High Court) shall be filed

in, and heard and disposed of by the Commercial Court

exercising territorial jurisdiction over such arbitration where

such Commercial Court has been constituted.

13.          The word "commercial dispute" has been defined

under section 2(1)(c) of the C.C. Act, 2015, which clearly

includes a dispute arising out of partnership agreements in

terms of sub-clause (xv) under clause (c) of section 2(1) of the

C.C Act, 2015. Similarly, the word "Specified Value" used in

various provisions of the C.C Act, 2015 has been defined

under section 2(1)(i). Specified Value, in relation to a




W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                              Page 21 of 36
 commercial dispute, shall mean the value of the subject

matter in respect of a "suit", which is to be determined in

accordance with section 12 and the same shall not be less

than three lakh rupees or such higher value, as may be

notified by the Central Government.

14.          So far as the Order of Madhya Pradesh High Court

in Yashwardhan Raghuwanshi (supra) cited by the learned

Counsel for the Petitioner, it was held as follows:

               "15. In view of the above discussions, the
          present petition deserves to succeed. The Entry No.45
          of the impugned order dated 20.10.2020 is set aside.
          It is hereby declared that the Court of District Judge as
          the Principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction would
          be competent to decide the matters/disputes filed
          under the provisions of Sections 9, 14, 34 & 36 of the
          Arbitration Act and also under the provisions of the
          Commercial Courts Act regardless of the value of
          claim. However, the District Judge by virtue of Section
          7 read with Section 15 of the Civil Courts Act would be
          entitled to distribute such work amongst any of the
          Additional District Judges under his supervision, but
          not to any Court of Civil Judge Class-I or Senior Civil
          Judge, or any Court of Small Causes."



15.          However, the High Court of Bombay in Gaurang

Manguesh       Suctancar       Vs.    Sonia     Gaurang       Suctancar,

reported in MANU/MH/2578/2020, dealing with an issue as

to whether the Commercial Court under the CC Act, 2015 was

justified to refuse to entertain an application under Section 9




W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                                       Page 22 of 36
 of the Act, 1996 and return it to the Petitioner/Applicant to be

presented before the appropriate Court, held as follows:

             "Issue:

             2. For adjudicating an application under
          Section 9 of the Arbitration Act, which is the
          forum: Is it the court as defined under Section 2
          (1) (e) of the Arbitration Act, read with Section 5
          of the Goa Civil Courts Act 1965 or is it the
          Commercial Court under Section 3 (1) of the
          Amended Commercial Courts Act 2015?

             92. Evidently, the Commercial Courts Act is a later
          enactment, but it does not work at cross purpose with
          the Arbitration Act. In fact, both aim at speedy
          adjudication. The Commercial Courts Act covers all the
          commercial disputes, whereas the Arbitration Act
          covers only those disputes that involve arbitration. As
          Kandla Export Corporation has held, both the
          enactments call for a harmonious interpretation. If at
          all there is any conflict, as to the substantive
          provisions, the Arbitration Act prevails; but it has left
          the procedural niceties to the Commercial Courts Act.
          Section 10 (3) of the Commercial Courts act and the
          Remote Conditional:
             93. Let us revisit Section 10 (3) of the Commercial
          Courts Act. "If it is a domestic arbitration, all
          applications or appeals arising out of arbitration "that
          would ordinarily lie before any principal civil court of
          original jurisdiction" in a district (not being a High
          Court) shall be filed in, and heard and disposed of by
          the Commercial Court".
             94. Sub-section (3) begins with a conditional "if.
          Then, it delineates on how "all applications or appeals"
          arising out of arbitration should be adjudicated. They
          "would ordinarily" lie before the "principal civil court of
          original jurisdiction." In that sentence, "ordinarily" is
          an adverbial emphasiser; let us keep it aside. Now the
          sentence is "they would lie before the principal civil
          court of original jurisdiction." It is, grammatically
          speaking, the 'second conditional' employing the
          subjunctive "would". If refers to an unlikely or
          improbable future event or arrangement. What could
          have been an ordinary course of remedial event now
          stands altered. This uncertainty or altered course
          under sub-section (3) is because of a statutory
          development-the advent of the Commercial Courts Act.




W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                                         Page 23 of 36
           So, to repeat, what could have been the subject of
          adjudication before the principal civil court of original
          jurisdiction, now "shall be filed in, and heard and
          disposed of by the Commercial Court exercising
          territorial jurisdiction over such arbitration where such
          Commercial Court has been constituted."
             95. Because, now, the Commercial Courts have
          been established, "all applications" under the
          Arbitration Act should lock, stock, and barrel go before
          the Commercial Courts. So the concept of" the principal
          civil court of original jurisdiction" no longer applies.
          Instead, what matters is the "Commercial Court". That
          accepted, which is the Commercial Court-the Senior
          Civil Judge's Court or the District Court? In Goa, the
          District Court is no longer the primary Commercial
          Court; it is, in fact, a Commercial Appellate Court.
             96. In this context, I may once again quote G.P.
          Singh, G.P. Singh (n 13) 91, who says that "the words
          of a statute are first understood in their natural,
          ordinary or popular sense and phrases and sentences
          are construed according to their grammatical meaning,
          unless that leads to some absurdity or unless there is
          something in the context, or in the object of the statute
          to suggest the contrary." Here, if sub-section (3) is not
          read in its ordinary grammatical sense, it will lead to
          absurdity.

          The Decisions:

             97. The respondent wants me to treat co-equal
          Bench decisions in D.M. Corporation and Jaiswal
          Ashoka Infrastructure as per incuriam. They have
          been rendered, as she points out, in ignorance of
          Kandla Export Corporation. As the Supreme Court has
          held in B. Satyanarayana Rao, the rule of per incuriam
          can be applied "where a Court omits to consider a
          binding precedent of the same court or the superior
          court rendered on the same issue or where a court
          omits to consider any statute while deciding that
          issue."
             98. In D.M. Corporation, a learned Single Judge
          (Dr. Shalini Phansalkar-Joshi, J.) has, on facts, noted
          that the dispute concerns an arbitration agreement,
          the subject-matter of which is above Rs. 1 crore; it is a
          dispute of commercial nature. So even if the relief
          claimed is mere injunction, because of Section
          10(3) of the Commercial Courts Act, the Principal
          District Judge has correctly transferred the
          arbitration application to the Commercial Court.
          The impugned order passed by the District Court



W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                                       Page 24 of 36
           being just, legal, and correct; it warranted no
          interference.
              99. In Jaiswal Ashoka Infrastructure, another
          learned Single Judge (A.S. Chandurkar, J) has
          observed that because of Section 15(2) of the
          Commercial Courts Act, suits and applications in
          relation to a commercial dispute pending in any civil
          court must be transferred to the Commercial Court.
          That is, the civil court "ceases to have jurisdiction to
          entertain an application under the provisions of the
          [Commercial Courts] Act in relation to a commercial
          dispute of a specified value." Once the court lacks
          inherent jurisdiction, express or implied consent,
          failure to raise jurisdictional object, or even
          acquiescence cannot clothe the court with jurisdiction.
              100. I have already elaborately discussed
          Kandla Export Corporation, and I see no
          precedential transgression in D.M. Corporation or
          Jaiswal Ashoka Infrastructure.

                    Conclusion:

                    (1) Contrary to the respondent's contentions,
                   the Notification, dt. 05.05.2020, issued by
                   the Government of Goa, is in tune with the
                   legislative mandate under Sections 3 and 3A
                   of the Commercial Courts Act, 2015.

                   (2) In the State of Goa, the designated
                   District Courts are the Appellate Commercial
                   Courts, and the Senior Civil Judges' Courts
                   are the Commercial Courts.

                   (3) Even adjudication of an application
                   under Section 9 of the Arbitration Act
                   must be before the Commercial Court,
                   and that Commercial Court need not be
                   the principal civil court of original
                   jurisdiction.

                   (4) There is no conflict between the
                   Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996
                   and the Commercial Courts Act 2015. If
                   at all we maintain the distinction, the
                   former Act deals with the substantive
                   rights of the parties to the arbitration,
                   and the latter Act with the procedural
                   essentials, the choice of the forum being
                   a part of it.




W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                                      Page 25 of 36
                     (5) As Kandla Export Corporation has held,
                    regarding any commercial arbitral dispute,
                    the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996
                    determines, among other things, the
                    appellate remedies and the Commercial
                    Courts Act 2015 provides for the forum and
                    adjudicatory procedure.
          Result:

             As a result, I hold that the Ad-hoc Senior Civil
          Judge, "A" Court, Panaji, has failed to exercise
          the jurisdiction vested in it as the Commercial
          Court. Its returning the petitioner's application to be
          presented "before proper court" is erroneous and
          unsustainable, for it is, by itself, the proper court. The
          impugned Order, dt. 08.07.2020, is set aside.
             So the Commercial Court at North Goa, Panaji, will
          have the CMA Stamp No. 243/2020 restored to file
          and adjudicated on merits, after giving the regular
          number."

                                            (Emphasis supplied)

16.           The Division Bench of this Court in M.G. Mohanty

and others Vs. State of Odisha and others, reported in

2022(III)ILR-CUT-992, while deciding the issue regarding

constitutional validity of section 10(3) of the CC Act, 2015 in a

batch of cases, took note of both the said Orders of Madhya

Pradesh High Court so also Bombay High Court. The Division

Bench disagreed with the reasoning of the High Court of

Madhya Pradesh in Yashwardhan Raghuwanshi (supra),

whereas, respectfully agreed with the views of Bombay High

Court in Gaurang Manguesh Suctancar (supra) and observed

as follows:




W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                                        Page 26 of 36
                 "39. In Yashwardhan Raghuwanshi v.
          District & Sessions Judge (supra), the Madhya
          Pradesh High Court relied on the decision of the
          Supreme Court of India in State of Maharashtra,
          through Executive Engineer v. Atlanta Limited (2014)
          11 SCC 619 to hold that the Court of superior most
          jurisdiction in a district is the Court of the District
          Judge. It concluded that:
                    "14......Segregation of an arbitration
                    matters on the basis of a pecuniary
                    limit is not what the law provides for.
                    All      the    arbitration      matters,
                    irrespective of the value of claim, are
                    required to be adjudicated by
                    Principal Civil Court of original
                    jurisdiction. Therefore, it is clear that
                    in respect of commercial disputes
                    involving an arbitration dispute only
                    the Commercial Court of the status of
                    District Judge or Additional District
                    Judge would be the competent court
                    to entertain the matters under
                    Sections 9, 14, 34 & 36 of the
                    Arbitration Act."
                42. In any event, this Court is unable to
          agree with the reasoning of the High Court of
          Madhya Pradesh in Yashwardhan Raghuwanshi
          (supra). In particular, the Court would like to refer to
          the Parliamentary intent in enacting the CC Act in
          2015 much after the A&C Act of 2016 and the SOR not
          only of the Bill introduced in 2015 but also the SOR of
          the Bill introduced in 2018, amending the said statute.
          The debates in the Parliament in this regard are
          instructive. In defending its decision to expand the
          scope of commercial disputes beyond those which
          were of high value, three aspects that were mentioned
          on behalf of the Government defending the Bill in the
          Parliament, which read as under:

                 "Now, what really has transpired in
                 December 2017? As has already been
                 mentioned by the hon. Minister, in
                 December, 2017, the Government had
                 established a total of 247 commercial
                 courts across the country. But, the non-
                 exhausted list of 22 disputes, termed as
                 commercial disputes, has also been
                 brought in. To increase the efficiency of the
                 system, there are still many enactments
                 and many things which we need to correct



W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                                         Page 27 of 36
                  and this is just one part of the correction to
                 improve the ease of doing business. By
                 bringing the jurisdiction to three lakhs, we
                 will    actually   be    bringing     judicial
                 accessibility to a wider audience and to a
                 larger number of people. By making it
                 available to a larger number of people, we
                 will be resolving a larger number of
                 disputes. It is in this context that the
                 jurisdiction has been reduced after
                 studying the data in detail.

                This particular amendment has been brought in
          with the specific value which was determined under
          Section 2 (1) (i), where the minimum pecuniary
          jurisdiction is mentioned, which was one crore earlier
          before the Ordinance, now it has been brought to three
          lakhs. This jurisdiction will initiate more such disputes
          to have a faster disposal.
                As I have mentioned earlier, under the Charter,
          there are Chartered High Courts and non-Chartered
          High Courts. So, certain original jurisdictions are
          vested with certain High Courts and not with every
          High Court. This was one impediment in establishing
          commercial divisions. So, there was a bar of some sort.
          To do away with the bar, this particular enactment
          has been brought in and this is another major change
          which has been brought in through this
          particular Bill.
                The third aspect of the commercial
          appellate court is that normally at the District
          Level, either a District Judge or a Judge below
          the level of District Judge, will be notified as the
          Commercial Court Judge. Then the appeal need
          not go to the High Court. The appeal can go to
          the District Judge. That is also a part of this
          particular enactment."
                43. The legislature appears to have left it open to
          the High Court and the State government either to
          appoint a Civil Judge (Senior Division) or an Additional
          District Judge as the Commercial Court of first
          instance to expedite the adjudication of commercial
          disputes. It is interesting to note that there are
          several States that have constituted Commercial
          Courts both at the District Judge level as well as
          below the District Judge level. In Gujarat, the
          Courts of the Additional District Judges in Bhuj, Anjar,
          Gandhidham and Bhachau have been constituted for
          hearing arbitration matters whereas the Courts of the
          Principal Senior Civil Judge in these places are for



W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                                          Page 28 of 36
           hearing other commercial disputes. In Karnataka, in
          some districts, it is the Principal D&SJ and in others
          the AD&SJ. In Bihar, depending on the pecuniary
          value, it could be the District Judge or the Sub-Judge.
          In Uttarakhand, it is the Additional District Judge
          Commercial Court, Dehradun. The intent clearly
          was to expand the power and to bring in more
          Courts under the rubric of 'Commercial Courts'.
          Considering that the specified value was being
          lowered, it was but natural to allow Courts below
          the rank of the District Judge to be designated
          as such.
                44. Section 10(3) of the CC Act specifically
          deals with arbitrations, 'other than international
          commercial arbitrations'. The jurisdiction in
          respect of such disputes would now be based
          with the Commercial Courts, although earlier it
          was with a principal Civil Court, which would
          ordinarily exercise jurisdiction under Section
          2(1)(e) of the A&C Act. The orders passed by the
          D&SJ on 7th July 2021, transferring the
          arbitration petitions to the Court of the Senior
          Civil Judge Commercial Court, was only by way
          of implementation of these provisions.
                46. There might be an anomaly inasmuch as
          arbitral disputes of a commercial value of less than
          Rs.3 Lacs may have to be dealt with directly by the
          D&SJ in terms of the definition under Section 2(1)(e) of
          the A&C Act and appeal against which would lie to the
          commercial appellate division in the High Court. But
          none of the petitions before this Court has that fact
          situation. The questions is, therefore, purely academic.
          Nevertheless, it will be open to the State Government
          to revise its notification in view of the above anomaly.
                48. At this stage, it must be pointed out that this
          Court's attention has been drawn to the Judgment of
          the Bombay High Court in Gaurang Mangesh
          Suctancar v. Sonia Gaurang Suctancar (Supra).
          The Bombay High Court, on analyzing these very
          provisions, came to the conclusion that it is the CC Act
          provisions that would prevail. The Court is in
          respectful concurrence with the said view. As
          rightly noted by the Bombay High Court both Sections
          42 of the A&C Act and Section 21 of the CC Act
          appeared to be similar provisions inasmuch as they
          begin with a non-obstante clause, precluding the
          applicability of any other law for the time being in
          force. The following observations of the Bombay High
          Court in this regards are relevant, which reads as
          under:



W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                                       Page 29 of 36
                "60. G.P. Singh, in his cerebral
               commentary, Principles of           Statutory
               Interpretation (G.P. Singh, Interpretation of
               Statutes, (reprint, 14 edn., Lexis Nexis,
               2018) 403), has explained that "the
               expression 'notwithstanding anything in
               any other law' occurring in a section of an
               Act cannot be construed to take away the
               effect of any provision of the Act in which
               that section appears. In other words, 'any
               other law' will refer to any law other than
               the Act in which that section occurs." In
               contrast, the expression 'notwithstanding
               anything contained in this Act' may be
               construed to take away the effect of any
               provision of the Act in which the section
               occurs but it cannot take away the effect
               of any other law.
               61. Indeed, a special enactment or Rule
               cannot be held     to be overridden by a
               later general enactment or simply because
               the latter opens up with a non obstante
               clause. There should be a clear
               inconsistency between the two before
               giving an overriding effect to the non
               obstante clause.
               62. The learned author G.P. Singh has
               also remarked that sometimes one finds
               two or more enactments operating in the
               same field and each containing a non
               obstante clause. Each clause, in fact,
               declares that its provisions will have effect
               'notwithstanding anything inconsistent
               therewith contained in any other law for
               the time being in force'. The conflict in such
               cases is resolved on consideration of
               purpose and policy underlying the
               enactments and the language used in
               them. Another test applied is that the later
               enactment normally prevails over the
               earlier one. It is also relevant to consider
               as to whether either of the two enactments
               can be described a special one; in that
               case the special one may prevail over the
               more general one notwithstanding that the
               general one is later in time.
               63. In fact, the Arbitration Act and the
               Commercial Courts Act, both central
               enactments, have employed this 'non-
               obstante clause' at more than one place.



W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                                        Page 30 of 36
                 Precisely for this reason, Kandla Export
                Corporation has harmoniously resolved
                this imbroglio: that the Arbitration Act
                prevails when it concerns the parties'
                substantive rights, and the Commercial
                Courts Act does when it concerns the
                parties' procedural rights."
                49. The Bombay High Court then undertook an
          analysis of the un-amended provisions of the CC Act
          and noted that there is a two-tier Court at the district
          level. One is the Commercial Court of original
          jurisdiction and another at the District Judge level of
          the Commercial Appellate Court. The approach in
          Kandla Exports (supra) about the CC Act being
          procedural     in   nature    and    therefore   having
          retrospective effect, found support in the decision in
          New India Assurance Company Limited v. Shanti
          Misra (1975) 2 SCC 840, where a three-Judge Bench
          held that once there was a change not in the
          substantive law but in the procedural law, it would
          operate retrospectively and 'the person has to go to the
          new forum even if his cause of action or right of action
          accrued prior to the change of forum'. The relevant
          passage of the decision of the Bombay High Court in
          Gaurang Mangesh Suctancar v. Sonia Gaurang
          Suctancar, reads as under:

                "92. Evidently, the Commercial Courts Act
                is a later enactment, but it does not work
                at cross purpose with the Arbitration Act.
                In fact, both aim at speedy adjudication.
                The Commercial Courts Act covers all the
                commercial      disputes,   whereas     the
                Arbitration Act covers only those disputes
                that involve arbitration. As Kandla Export
                Corporation has held, both the enactments
                call for a harmonious interpretation. If at
                all there is any conflict, as to the
                substantive provisions, the Arbitration Act
                prevails; but it has left the procedural
                niceties to the Commercial Courts Act."
                50. The Court finds merit in the contention on
          behalf of the Opposite Parties that the A&C Act must
          yield to the CC Act and not vice versa given that the
          objective of both enactments is the speedy disposal of
          the cases and the CC Act was a later enactment. There
          is no apparent conflict between the A&C Act and the
          CC Act for being resolved. The objective of both is the
          speedy resolution of the disputes. As far as challenge
          to the vires of Section 10 of the CC Act is concerned,



W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                                      Page 31 of 36
           indeed no ground has been made out before this Court
          to show how Section 10 of the CC Act is ultra vires the
          legislative powers of the Parliament or how it is
          'manifestly arbitrary'. The         identification   of
          commercial disputes as distinct from ordinary
          civil disputes is based on an intelligible
          differentia and subjecting them to a special
          expedited procedure can neither be considered to
          be arbitrary nor ultra vires the A&C Act. That
          prayer, therefore, has to be rejected.
                51. Incidentally, there is no challenge to either
          Section 15 or 21 of the CC Act. If indeed commercial
          cases      involving     arbitral     disputes     have
          necessarily to be transferred under Section 10(3)
          read with Section 15(2) of the CC Act, then as a
          natural corollary the Commercial Court alone
          will have to decide those disputes and not of the
          Court in terms of the A&C Act. In passing the
          impugned orders transferring the cases, the D&SJ has
          not committed any illegality nor has the Senior Civil
          Judge, Commercial Court, Bhubaneswar committed
          any illegality in accepting the cases on transfer and
          proceeding with them in accordance with law."

                                          (Emphasis supplied)

17.          The Judgment of this court in M.G. Mohanty

(supra) being challenged before the Supreme Court, the same

was upheld in Jaycee Housing Pvt. Ltd. (supra). Paragraphs

6, 10 & 11 of the said judgment, being relevant, are

reproduced below:

          "6. The question of law arising for consideration
          in the present appeal is, whether in exercise of
          powers under Section 3 of the Commercial Courts
          Act, 2015, the State Government can confer
          jurisdiction to hear applications under Sections
          9, 14 and 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation
          Act, 1996, upon Commercial Courts which are
          subordinate to the rank of the Principal Civil
          Judge in the District, contrary to the provisions
          of Section 2(1)(e) of the Arbitration Act?




W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                                     Page 32 of 36
           10. Thus, the Objects and Reasons of Commercial
          Courts Act, 2015 is to provide for speedy disposal of
          the commercial disputes which includes the arbitration
          proceedings. To achieve the said Objects, the
          legislature in its wisdom has specifically conferred the
          jurisdiction in respect of arbitration matters as per
          Section 10 of the Act, 2015. At this stage, it is
          required to be noted that the Act, 2015 is the Act
          later in time and therefore when the Act, 2015
          has been enacted, more particularly Sections 3 &
          10, there was already a provision contained in
          Section 2(1)(e) of the Act, 1996. As per settled
          position of law, it is to be presumed that while
          enacting the subsequent law, the legislature is
          conscious of the provisions of the Act prior in
          time and therefore the later Act shall prevail. It is
          also required to be noted that even as per Section 15 of
          the Act, 2015, all suits and applications including
          applications under the Act, 1996, relating to a
          commercial dispute of specified value shall have to be
          transferred to the Commercial Court. Even as per
          Section 21 of the Act, 2015, Act, 2015 shall have
          overriding effect. It provides that save as
          otherwise provided, the provisions of this Act
          shall have effect, notwithstanding anything
          inconsistent therewith contained in any other
          law for the time being in force.

          11. Therefore, considering the afore stated provisions
          of the Act, 2015 and the Objects and Reasons for
          which the Act, 2015 has been enacted and the
          Commercial     Courts,    Commercial       Division   and
          Commercial Appellate Division in the High Courts are
          established for speedy disposal of the commercial
          disputes including the arbitration disputes, Sections 3
          & 10 of the Act, 2015 shall prevail and all
          applications or appeals arising out of arbitration
          under the provisions of Act, 1996, other than
          international commercial arbitration, shall be
          filed in and heard and disposed of by the
          Commercial Courts, exercising the territorial
          jurisdiction over such arbitration where such
          commercial courts have been constituted. If the
          submission on behalf of the appellants that all
          applications/appeals arising out of arbitration under
          the provisions of Act, 1996, other than the
          international commercial arbitration, shall lie before
          the principal civil Court of a district, in that case, not
          only the Objects and Reasons of enactment of Act,
          2015 and establishment of commercial courts shall be



W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                                        Page 33 of 36
           frustrated, even Sections 3, 10 & 15 shall become
          otiose and nugatory. If the submission on behalf of
          the appellants is accepted, in that case, though
          with respect to other commercial disputes, the
          applications or appeals shall lie before the
          commercial courts established and constituted
          under Section 3 of Act, 2015, with respect to
          arbitration proceedings, the applications or
          appeals shall lie before the principal civil Court
          of a district. There cannot be two fora with
          respect to different commercial disputes.
                Under the circumstances, notification issued by
          the State of Odisha issued in consultation with the
          High Court of Orissa to confer jurisdiction upon the
          court of learned Civil Judge (Senior Division)
          designated as Commercial Court to decide the
          applications or appeals arising out of arbitration under
          the provisions of Act, 1996 cannot be said to be illegal
          and bad in law. On the contrary, the same can be said
          to be absolutely in consonance with Sections 3 & 10 of
          Act, 2015. We are in complete agreement with the view
          taken by the High Court holding so."

                                           (Emphasis supplied)

18.          Law is well settled that the Court under section 9

of the Act, 1996 is only to formulate interim measure so as to

protect the right under adjudication before the Arbitral

Tribunal from being frustrated. In view of the provisions

enshrined under section 10(3) read with the definition of

"Commercial Dispute" and "Specified Value", as defined under

section 2(1)(c) & (i) of the CC Act, 2015 respectively, in

addition to the settled position of law, as detailed above, this

Court is of the view that only Suits and Applications, which

require to give a declaration regarding the valuation of

Suit/Application, which will be further subjected to valuation,



W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                                      Page 34 of 36
 if so required, to be determined in terms of section 12 of the

CC Act, 2015, will be the decisive factor to approach the fora

under the CC Act, 2015. This Court is of further view that, in

view of definition of "Specified Value" under section 2(1)(i) of

the CC Act, 2015, the same is not applicable to a section 9

application     for   determination   of   the   jurisdiction   of   a

Commercial Court to consider such application and the

Commercial Courts, where such Courts have been established

in the state, are only competent to hear and decide the

section 9 application filed under the Act, 1996.

19.           This Court is of further view that section 15 of the

CC Act, 2015 regarding transfer of suits and applications

being only applicable to pending cases, the District Judge,

Cuttack ought to have returned the section 9 application to

the Petitioner for its presentation before the Court of the

Senior Civil Judge (Commercial Court), Cuttack. However,

during hearing of the said application, realizing the fact that

the said Court lacks jurisdiction to hear the said application,

after assessing the cost of such application to be more than

rupees five lakhs, as is permissible under section 12 of the CC

Act, 2015 (though it was not so required in a section 9




W.P.(C) No.18217 of 2024                                 Page 35 of 36
 application), it was rightly ordered to transfer the matter to

the Commercial Court.

20.          In view of the detailed discussions made in the

forgoing paragraphs, this Court is also of the view that the

plea of the Petitioner regarding lack of jurisdiction of the

Commercial Court to adjudicate an application under section

9 of the Act, 1996, in absence of any valuation, is

misconceived. Both the points emerged, detailed above, are

answered accordingly.

21.          There being no infirmity in the impugned order

passed in ARBP No.02 of 2024, the Writ Petition stands

dismissed. No order as to cost.




                                          ...................................
                                            S.K. MISHRA, J.
Orissa High Court, Cuttack The 12th August, 2024 /Prasant Signed by: PRASANT KUMAR PRADHAN Location: High Court of Orissa, Cuttack. Date: 12-Aug-2024 17:43:22