Take notes as you read a judgment using our Virtual Legal Assistant and get email alerts whenever a new judgment matches your query (Query Alert Service). Try out our Premium Member Services -- Sign up today and get free trial for one month.
Gujarat High Court
Gujarat Composite Limited vs Apurva Vinimay Private Limited on 23 April, 2018
Bench: M.R. Shah, A.Y. Kogje
C/FA/588/2018                                                                  JUDGMENT



    IN THE HIGH COURT OF GUJARAT AT AHMEDABAD
                        R/FIRST APPEAL NO.  588 of 2018
                                    With 
                        R/FIRST APPEAL NO. 587 of 2018
 
FOR APPROVAL AND SIGNATURE: 
HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE M.R. SHAH                                              Sd/­
and
HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE A.Y. KOGJE                                             Sd/­
=============================================
1      Whether Reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see                Yes
       the judgment ?

2      To be referred to the Reporter or not ?                                Yes

3      Whether their Lordships wish to see the fair copy of the                No
       judgment ?

4      Whether this case involves a substantial question of law as             No
       to the interpretation of the Constitution of India or any 
       order made thereunder ?

=============================================
                          GUJARAT COMPOSITE LIMITED
                                     Versus
                           A INFRASTRUCTURE LIMITED
=============================================
Appearance:
FIRST APPEAL NO.588/2018
MR DC DAVE, SENIOR ADVOCATE with MR HARSH V GAJJAR for the PETITIONER(s) No. 1
MR   SHALIN   MEHTA,   SENIOR   ADVOCATE   with   MR   HAMESH   NAIDU,   ADVOCATE   for 
RESPONDENT(s) No. 1

FIRST APPEAL NO.587/2018
MR PREMAL NANAVATI, ADVOCATE with MR HARSH V GAJJAR for the PETITIONER(s) No.1
MR  SHALIN  MEHTA,  SENIOR   ADVOCATE   with   MR   HAMESH   C  NAIDU  for  Respondent(s) 
No.1
=============================================
    CORAM: HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE M.R. SHAH
           and
           HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE A.Y. KOGJE
 
                             Date : 23/04/2018
                          COMMON ORAL JUDGMENT
  (PER : HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE M.R. SHAH) [1.0] As common question of law and facts arise in both these appeals,  they are disposed of by this common judgment and order.
C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT [2.0] Feeling   aggrieved   and   dissatisfied   with   the   impugned   passed  below   Exh.39   by   the   learned   Judge,   Commercial   Court,   Ahmedabad  (hereinafter referred to as "learned Commercial Court") in Commercial  Civil   Suit   No.90/2017   by   which   the   learned   Commercial   Court   has  rejected the said application  preferred by the original defendant No.1  which was submitted under Section 8 of the Arbitration and Conciliation  Act,   1996   (hereinafter   referred   to   as   "Arbitration   Act,   1996"),   the  original defendant No.1 has preferred the First Appeal No.588/2018.
[2.1] Feeling   aggrieved   and   dissatisfied   with   the   impugned   passed  below Exh.39 by the learned Commercial Court in Commercial Civil Suit  No.91/2017  by which  the  learned Commercial  Court has  rejected  the  said   application   preferred   by   the   original   defendant   No.1   which   was  submitted   under   Section   8   of   the   Arbitration   Act,   1996,   the   original  defendant No.1 has preferred the First Appeal No.587/2018.
[3.0] For the sake of convenience the facts in First Appeal No.588/2018  are narrated and First Appeal No.588/2018 be treated and considered as  a lead matter. 
[3.1] That the appellant herein - original defendant No.1 (hereinafter  referred to as "original defendant No.1") and the respondent No.1 herein 
- original plaintiff (hereinafter referred to as "original plaintiff") entered  into   the   license   agreement   on   07.04.2005   whereby   the   original  defendant No.1 as a licensor permitted the original plaintiff as a licensee  to operate two manufacturing units of the defendant No.1 being A.C.  Sheet   and   Cement   Grinding,   for   consideration   on   terms   specified  therein. The duration of the said agreement was specified as 84 months  (7 years). 
[3.2] That another license agreement of the same nature was executed  C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT by and between the original defendant No.1 and a sister concern of the  original plaintiff named Apurva Vinmay Pvt. Ltd. (subject matter of First  Appeal No.587/2018) on the same date i.e. 07.04.2005 under which the  original defendant No.1 licensor permitted the said sister concern of the  original plaintiff and licensee to operate another manufacturing unit of  the original defendant No.1 being A.C. Pressure Pipe, for consideration  and on terms specified therein. The duration of the said agreement was  also specified as 84 months (7 years). 
[3.3] That   supplementary   agreement   was   executed   in   respect   of   the  aforesaid license agreements also on the same date i.e. 07.04.2005. That  the   said   supplementary  agreement  was  between  the  original   plaintiff,  original defendant No.1 and the aforesaid sister concern of the original  plaintiff - plaintiff of Commercial Civil Suit No.91/2018. It appears that  the   purpose   of   the   said   supplementary   agreement   was   to   facilitate  financial   assistance   to   the   original   defendant   No.1   by   the   original  plaintiff on enable the original defendant No.1 to discharge his liabilities  towards   its   creditors.   That   in   the   supplementary   agreement   which   as  such during the occurrence of the aforesaid sister concern as confirming  party thereto, that as consideration for rendering financial assistance to  the   original   defendant   No.1   it   would   be   permissible   for   the   original  plaintiff to create  mortgage in  its  favour in respect of aforesaid three  manufacturing units of the original defendant No.1. 
[3.4] That thereafter an amendment agreement was executed by and  between   the   original   plaintiff   and   the   original   defendant   No.1   for  amendment   of   Clauses   11   and   15   of   the   license   agreement   for   re­ purchase   of   the   assets   and   for   provision   of   bonus,   vide   amendment  agreement dated 25.06.2015. 
[3.5] That   thereafter   a   tripartite   agreement   was   executed   by   and  C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT between the original plaintiff, original defendant No.1 and the Bank of  Baroda dated 06.07.2006. Under the aforesaid tripartite agreement the  original  defendant No.1 agreed for the  creation  of first charge of the  Bank   of   Baroda   on   its   specified   assets   for   securing   repayment   of   the  corporate loan of Rs.500 lakh provided to the original plaintiff by the  Bank   of   Baroda.   The   said   agreement   also   provided   that   the   Bank   of  Baroda   would   release   its   first   charge   only   with   the   consent   of   the  plaintiff   unless   the   repayment   of   the   loan   was   made   directly   by   the  original defendant No.1. That thereafter an amendment was introduced  to   the   aforesaid   tripartite   agreement   on   23.01.2018   for   incorporating  therein   a   condition   that   the   title   deeds   of   the   land   of   the   original  defendant   No.1   would   not   be   transferred   to   anybody   by   the   original  defendant No.1 during the currency of the aforesaid license agreement. 
[3.6] It   appears   that   thereafter   the   original   plaintiff   call   upon   the  original   defendant  No.1  to  extend  the   tenure   of  the   aforesaid  license  agreement on 22.02.2012, to extend the tenure of the aforesaid license  agreement further by 84 months. It appears that the original defendant  No.1 replied to the aforesaid denying the claim of the plaintiff as also  the   proposal   for   extension   of   license   agreement   vide   reply   dated  29.02.2012. It appears that instead of handing over the possession of the  aforesaid   manufacturing   units   on   completion   of   tenure   of   the   license  agreement,   the   plaintiff   declared   his   intention   to   continue   with   the  possession of the same by addressing in this regard to the employees of  the   original   defendant   No.1.   It   is   the   case   on   behalf   of   the   original  defendant   No.1   that   thereafter   attempts   were   made   to   resolve   the  dispute arising out of the said agreement between April 2012 to March  2015, but nothing materialized. 
[3.7] That thereafter the original defendant No.1 issued notice to the  C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT plaintiff   claiming   recovery   of   the   possession   of   the   licensed  manufacturing units as also the amount which according to the original  defendant No.1 was due from the plaintiff as per the license agreement,  vide notice dated 07.01.2015. 
That   the   original   plaintiff   replied   to   the   aforesaid   notice,   vide  reply   dated   20.04.2015   disputing   the   claim   of   the   original   defendant  No.1 for possession and the amount. It appears that again attempts were  made for resolving the dispute between 26.08.2015 to 17.11.2016 for  resolving   the   dispute,   however   there   was   no   positive   outcome.  Therefore, the original defendant No.1 caused to serve upon the original  plaintiff a notice under Section 21 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 invoking  the provisions for arbitration contained in the license agreement. That  vide  communication  dated 27.03.2017  the  original  plaintiff  replied to  the aforesaid notice stating that the dispute raised is not arbitrable. 
[3.8] That the original defendant No.1 preferred composite arbitration  petition being IAAP No.63/2017 against the original plaintiff as well as  the aforesaid sister concern of the plaintiff, before this Court. That the  said IAAP was preferred on 26.04.2017. 
[3.9] It appears that on 27.04.2017, the original plaintiff preferred the  Commercial Civil Suit No.90/2017 against the original defendant No.1  and others seeking mainly the following reliefs.
(1) Decree   against   the   original   defendant   No.1   for   Rs.32.66   Crore  alongwith the interest thereon as due from the original defendant  No.1 under the license agreement;
(2) Injunction restraining the original defendant No.1 from disturbing  the possession of the original plaintiff in respect of the licensed  manufacturing units as original plaintiff was stated to be entitled  to continue with the possession pursuant to the license agreement;
 C/FA/588/2018                                                             JUDGMENT



(3)     Declaration  that  the  conveyance  deeds  executed by the  original 
defendant No.1 in favour of third parties (joined as defendants) in  respect of the parcels of land on which the licensed manufacturing  units was located in the suit as void as the same were de hors the  license agreement;
(4) Direction upon Bank of Baroda for non­release of title deeds of the  concerned land in favour of private respondents to whom the land  was transferred by sale by the original defendant No.1.
That   the   original   defendant   No.1   preferred   an   application  under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 in the aforesaid suits,  for reference of dispute forming the subject matter of the suit to  arbitration.   That   the   original   defendant   No.1   filed   the   written  statement in the suit in which an objection was also raised to the  jurisdiction   of   the   commercial   Court   in   view   of   the   arbitration  clause   contained   in   the   license   agreement.   The   original   plaintiff  also filed the reply to the application of the original defendant No.1  under   Section   8   of   the   Arbitration   Act,   1996.   The   original  defendant No.1 filed the affidavit in rejoinder to the aforesaid reply  on   03.07.2017.   It   appears   that   as   IAAP   No.63/2017   was   a  composite petition against both, plaintiff of Commercial Civil Suit  No.90/2017   as   well   as   its   sister   concern,   therefore,   the   original  defendant   No.1   withdrew   the   aforesaid   composite   petition   being  IAAP No.63/2017 with a liberty to file fresh separate petitions. 
[3.10] It appears that thereafter the original defendant No.1  preferred two separate IAAPs under Section 11 of the Arbitration  Act,   1996   being   IAAP   No.90/2017   as   well   as   IAAP   No.89/2017  against the original plaintiff and its sister concern on 13.07.2017. 
C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT That   the   original   defendant   No.2   Bank   of   Baroda  submitted  written   submissions   on   06.12.2017   in   response   to  the  application under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1996. It appears  that   on   the   very   day   i.e.   on   06.12.2017,   the   original   defendant  No.1   submitted   the   purshis   stating   that   though   the   original  defendant   No.2   Bank   of   Baroda   is   paid   its   dues   by   the   original  plaintiff, the original defendant No.1 was prepared to deposit the  additional   500   lakh   in   the   Court   subject   to   the   outcome   of   the  arbitration   and   title   deeds   of   the   land   be   deposited   with   the  Hon'ble Court and the same to be given to the original defendant  No.1   subject   to   outcome   of   the   arbitration.   That   thereafter   the  learned Commercial Court has passed the impugned order rejecting  the application under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1996, which  is the subject matter of present First Appeal No.588/2018. A similar  order has been passed in Commercial Civil Suit No.91/2017, which  was preferred by the sister concern which is the subject matter of  First Appeal No.587/2018. 
[3.11] That   thereafter   vide   order   dated   15.12.2017   and  considering   the   order   passed   by   the   learned   Commercial   Court  rejecting   section   8   application,   this   Court   rejected   the   aforesaid  IAAPs,   however  with  a   liberty   to  file   fresh  applications  after  the  outcome   of   the   present   appeals   and   regardless   of   the   outcome  thereof. 
[3.12] Thus,   the   impugned   orders   passed   by   the   learned  Commercial Court rejecting section 8 applications preferred by the  original   defendant   No.1   are   the   subject   matter   of   present   First  C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT Appeals. 
[4.0] Shri   D.C.   Dave,   learned   Senior   Advocate   has   appeared   on  behalf of the appellant of First Appeal No.588/2018, Shri Premal  Nanavati, learned Advocate has appeared on behalf of the appellant  of First Appeal No.587/2018 and Shri Shalin Mehta, learned Senior  Advocate has appeared on behalf of the respondent No.1 in both  the First Appeals.
FIRST APPEAL NO.588/2018 [5.0] Shri D.C. Dave, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the  appellant   herein   -   original   defendant   No.1   has   vehemently  submitted that in the facts and circumstances of the case, learned  Commercial   Court   has   materially   erred   in   rejecting   section   8  application application and not referring the matter / parties to the  arbitration, despite the specific arbitration clause contained in the  license agreement. 
[5.1] It   is   specifically   submitted   by   Shri   Dave,   learned   Counsel  appearing on behalf of the original defendant No.1 that as such it is  the settled proposition of law that the provision of section 8 of the  Arbitration   Act,   1996   is   obligatory   in   nature   whereby   once   it   is  admitted that there is an arbitration clause in the agreement, then  in view of mandatory language of section 8 of the Arbitration Act,  1996,   the   Civil   Court   is   bound   to   refer   the   disputes   to   the  Arbitrator. 
[5.2] It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Dave,   learned   Counsel  appearing on behalf of the original defendant No.1 that looking to  C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT the contents of the plaint as a whole and even the reliefs sought in  the   suit,   it   is   crystal   clear   that   the   grievances   of   the   plaintiff  emanates from the contractual obligations contained in the license  agreement   executed   between   the   plaintiff   and   the   original  defendant No.1. 
[5.3] It is further submitted that as such the original plaintiff has  not provided any break­up or details of the heads of claims under  which   the   plaintiff   has   sought   the   recovery   of   sum   of   Rs.32.66  Crore   in   the   entire   plaint.   It   is   submitted   that   therefore,   the  pleadings   and   averments   contained   in   plaint   are   vague   and  ambiguous   in   nature.   It   is   submitted   that   however   during   the  course of hearing, it was maintained by the plaintiff that the said  claim  was based upon the license agreement and the accounting  details   of   the   same   were   placed   on   record   vide   the   list   of  documents   submitted   alongwith   the   plaint.   It   is   submitted   that  therefore   so   far   as   the   prayer   (A)   in   para   33   of   the   plaint   is  concerned,   not   only   the   amount   is   claimed   against   the   original  defendant No.1 but the same is claimed on the basis of the license  agreement. It is submitted that therefore the relief prayed in prayer  (A) of para 33 of the plaint falls within the domain of arbitration  clause enshrined in clause 32 of the license agreement. 
[5.4] It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Dave,   learned   Counsel  appearing on behalf of the original defendant No.1 that so far as  the relief in prayer (B) of para 33 of the plaint is concerned, the  genesis thereof is the license agreement, because it claimed on the  premise   that   according   to   the   plaintiff   the   license   agreement  C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT continues and during continuance of the same, original defendant  No.1 has no right to transfer the land upon which the licensed units  were located. It is submitted that it is true that the said relief would  affect   third   party   purchasers.   However,   the   said   relief   is  predominantly against the original defendant No.1 as the right of  the original defendant No.1 is questioned thereunder. 
[5.5] It   is   submitted  that   apart,   third   parties  (original   defendant  Nos.3 to 5), who have purchased the immovable property, have no  objection if the application moved by the original defendant No.1  under Section 8 is to be allowed. It is submitted that as such they  expressed   their   willingness   and   consent   to   join   the   arbitration  proceedings, if required as per the purshis dated 06.12.2017. It is  submitted that therefore when the parties who are not parties to  the   arbitration   agreement   have   no   objection   to   the   application  under   Section   8,   the   plaintiff,   who   is   admittedly   a   party   to   the  arbitration   agreement,   cannot   be   permitted   to  object   to   such   an  application   on   the   premise   that   non­parties   to   the   arbitration  agreement would be dragged to the arbitration. It is submitted that  as   such,   when   non­parties   to   the   arbitration   agreement   are  prepared to join arbitration, the proper course would be to invoke  application of section 89 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. 
In   support   of   his   above   submissions,   Shri   Dave,   learned  Counsel   appearing   on   behalf   of   the   original   defendant   No.1   has  relied upon the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case  of  Afcons  Infrastructure  Ltd.  vs. Cherian  Varkey  Construction  Co.   P.   Ltd.  reported   in  (2010)   8   SCC   24.   It   is   submitted   that  therefore   even   the   prayer   (B)   of   para   33   of   the   plaint   can   be  C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT referred to arbitration. 
[5.6] It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Dave,   learned   Counsel  appearing on behalf of the original defendant No.1 that so far as  the relief in prayer (C) of para 33 of the plaint is concerned, the  same pertains to protecting the possession of the plaintiff, which  the plaintiff claims as per Clause 31 on the ground that the plaintiff  is   entitled   to   hold   the   possession   till   the   recovery   claims   of   the  plaintiff   arising   out   of   the   license   agreement   are   satisfied.   It   is  submitted that therefore also, the said prayer is covered within the  ambit of the arbitration clause. 
[5.7] It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Dave,   learned   Counsel  appearing on behalf of the original defendant No.1 that so far as  relief in prayer (D) of para 33 of the plaint is concerned, the same  is   misconceived  in  nature   as  the  Bank  has  already  been  paid  its  dues as per the tripartite agreement by the plaintiff and therefore,  the   dispute   only   survives   amongst   the   plaintiff   and   original  defendant   No.1   regarding   payment   of   the   dues.   Moreover,   the  original   defendant   No.1   had   also   declared   by   way   of   a   purshis  dated 06.12.2017 before the learned Commercial Court that it is  ready and willing to deposit a sum of Rs.5 Crore before the learned  Commercial Court and therefore, no cause would survive against  the Bank for the plaintiff. It is submitted that therefore, prayer (D)  will not hinder the relief prayed below Exh.39. It is submitted that  the defendant No.2 Bank has not even bothered to file a written  statement before the learned Commercial Court and has only filed  written   submissions   against   Exh.39   to   object   the   prayers   under  C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 and therefore, it is crystal  clear   that   the   plaintiff   and   the   defendant   No.2   are   acting   in  collusion and defendant No.2 has been wrongly joined in the suit  proceedings to defeat the object and intent of the arbitral clause  enshrined in the license agreement. 
[5.8] It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Dave,   learned   Counsel  appearing on behalf of the original defendant No.1 that so far as  prayer (E) of para 33 of the plaint is concerned, the third party  purchasers   viz.   defendant   Nos.3   to   5   who   have   purchased   the  immovable property have expressed their willingness and consent  to   join   the   arbitration   proceedings   as   per   the   purshis   dated  06.12.2017. It is submitted that therefore also the said prayer can  be covered under the domain of arbitral clause as the defendant  Nos.3 to 5 cannot be said to be parties who are objecting and who  are dragged into arbitration proceedings. 
[5.9] It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Dave,   learned   Counsel  appearing on behalf of the original defendant No.1 that so far as  prayer (F) in para 33 is concerned, the same is a result of clever  drafting whereby no such powers have been enshrined upon the  Bank to  take over  the assets of the original  defendant  No.1 and  satisfy the recovery claim of the plaintiff in any of the agreements  namely license agreement, supplementary agreement and tripartite  agreement. It is further submitted that such prayer is only prayed  with a malicious intention to defeat the arbitral clause and title the  suit as a 'mortgage suit' however the suit in the present case cannot  be   branded   as   a   'mortgage   suit'   inasmuch   it   does   not   seek  C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT redemption or foreclosure of any mortgage and as such the entire  pleadings   averred   in   the   plaint   are   for   recovery   claim   of   the  plaintiff   which   arises   purely   out   of   the   license   agreement.   It   is  submitted that suit on mortgage can be filed by either mortgagor or  mortgagee. It is submitted that the plaintiff is neither of the two. It  is   submitted   that   therefore   the   said   prayer   clause   in   the   plaint  cannot hinder the prayer prayed in application at Exh.39. 
[5.10] It  is further  submitted by Shri Dave, learned  Counsel  appearing   on   behalf   of   the   original   defendant   No.1   that   infact  original   defendant   Nos.2   to   5   are   as   such   neither   necessary   nor  proper party to the suit and there is a clear mis­joinder of causes of  action   and   the   entire   plaint   is   cleverly   drafted   only   in   order   to  scuttle   the   mechanism   provided   in   the   license   agreement   for  resolution of disputes. It is therefore, submitted that mere joining  the defendant Nos.2 to 5 in the plaint, the plaintiff cannot object  the mechanism provided under the license agreement for resolution  of   the   disputes.   In   support   of   his   above   submissions,   Shri   Dave,  learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the original defendant No.1  has relied upon the decision of the Bombay High Court in the case  of A.B.K. Dubhash and Others vs. Petit Towers reported in 2011  (2) Mh.L.J. 57.  It is submitted that in the aforesaid decision the  Bombay High Court has held that the joining of the third party in a  suit  the  subject   matter  of  which  is otherwise   covered   within   the  arbitrable   clause,   cannot   be   a   ground   to   reject   the   application  under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1996. It is submitted that it  is   held   in   the   aforesaid   decision   that   the   object   of   Section   8   is  laudable and mandatory and the parties to an agreement cannot  C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT ignore   an   arbitral   clause   merely   because   a   third   party   has   been  joined by the applicant in order to frustrate an arbitral clause. 
[5.11] Shri Dave, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the  original  defendant No.1  has also relied  upon  the  decision  of  the  Andhra Pradesh High Court in the case of  M/s. Srivenkateswara  Constructions & Ors. vs. Union of India  reported in  1973 SCC  Online AP 163 in support of his above submissions. It is submitted  that in the aforesaid decision the Andhra Pradesh High Court, while  dealing   with   Section   34   of   the   Arbitration   Act,   1940   which   is  comparable with section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1996, has held  that   if   by   way   of   ingenious   drafting,   the   parties   which   are   not  parties   to   the   arbitration   agreement   are   joined   in   the   suit   as  defendants by claiming relief against them which could have been  either omitted or prayed for by filing an independent suit against  such parties, the Courts should not permit such things to frustrate  arbitration agreement. 
[5.12] Shri Dave, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the  original defendant No.1 has also heavily relied upon the decision of  the Delhi High Court in the case of  WPIL vs. NTPC Ltd. & Ors.  reported in  2009 (108) DRJ 404.  It is submitted that the Delhi  High Court held that when non­parties to arbitration agreement are  joined in the suit proceedings to defeat the arbitral clause then the  judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Sukanya Holdings (P)  Ltd. vs. Jayesh H. Pandya reported in (2003) 5 SCC 531 cannot  be   an   authority   to   reject   the   application   under   Section   8   of   the  Arbitration Act, 1996. 
 C/FA/588/2018                                                                 JUDGMENT



[5.13]          It  is further  submitted by Shri Dave, learned  Counsel 
appearing   on   behalf   of   the   original   defendant   No.1   that   it   is   a  settled position of law that issue of fraud simplicitor cannot be a  ground to reject an application  preferred under Section 8 of the  Arbitration Act, 1996. It is submitted that even in order to plead  fraud,   the   plaintiff   is   bound   to   aver   necessary   pleadings   as   to  particulars of fraudulent act and merely by stating that a fraud has  been   committed   upon   the   plaintiff,   a   ground   of   fraud   is  unsustainable in view of the provision contained in Rule 4 of Order  VI of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. It is submitted that in the  case of  A. Ayyasamy vs. A. Paramasivam and Ors.  reported in  (2016) 10 SCC 386, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that the  reference to the arbitrable  proceedings cannot be refused on the  ground   of   fraud   simplicitor.   It   is   submitted   that   therefore   the  defence   of   fraud   contended   by   the   plaintiff   in   opposition   to  application   under   Section   8   preferred   by   the   original   defendant  No.1 is unsustainable. 
[5.14] It  is further  submitted by Shri Dave, learned  Counsel  appearing on behalf of the original defendant No.1 that looking to  the   plaint   as   a   whole   and   the   pleadings   contained   therein,   it   is  crystal clear that the grievance of the plaintiff pertains to recovery  of   dues   which   are   admittedly   claimed   as   per   the   principal  agreement viz. license agreement and the plaintiff wants to protect  his   possession   in   order   to   secure   its   claims.   It   is   submitted   that  therefore   the   grievances   of   the   plaintiff   are   covered   within   the  ambit of arbitrable clause.
 C/FA/588/2018                                                                JUDGMENT



[5.15]          It  is further  submitted by Shri Dave, learned  Counsel 
appearing   on   behalf   of   the   original   defendant   No.1   that   it   is  required   to   be   noted   that   the   plaintiff   in   its   reply   notice   dated  20.04.2015 specifically stated that the dispute between the original  plaintiff   and   the   original   defendant   No.1   have   to   be   resolved  through the mechanism provided in the license agreement and not  in any other way. It is submitted that therefore the plaintiff is now  estopped from seeking reliefs from any other Forum of law except  the mechanism for resolution of disputes viz. arbitration. 
[5.16] Shri Dave, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the  original defendant No.1 has submitted that the Hon'ble  Supreme  Court in the case of M/s. Sundaram Finance Ltd. and Anr. vs. T.  Thankam  reported in  (2015) 14 SCC 444  has held that once an  application under Section 8 is preferred, the approach of a Court  should   be   to   see   whether   its   jurisdiction   has   been   ousted   in  compliance of a special statute. It is submitted that the general law  should   yield   to   the   special   law.   It   is   submitted   that   in   such  situation,   the   approach   shall   not   be  to   see   whether   there   is  still  jurisdiction  in the civil court under the general law. It is further  submitted that such approaches would only delay the resolution of  disputes and complicate the redressal of grievances and of course  unnecessarily increase the pendency in the Court. 
[5.17] It  is further  submitted by Shri Dave, learned  Counsel  appearing on behalf of the original defendant No.1 that the Hon'ble  Supreme Court in the case of  Chloro Controls P. Ltd. vs. Severn  Trent Water Purification Inc. and Ors. reported in (2013) 1 SCC  C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT 641,  has held that the reference of disputes to arbitration where  non­signatory   are   concerned   is   not   unknown   to   the   arbitration  jurisprudence. It is submitted that it was further held that in cases  of multiple agreements where the ancillary agreements emanates  from the parent agreement containing the arbitral clause, then the  approach of the Court should be to refer the parties to arbitration. 
Making above submissions and relying upon above decisions  it is requested to quash and set aside the impugned order rejecting  application under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 and refer  the   dispute   /   parties   to   Arbitration   Tribunal   as   per   the   license  agreement.
[6.0] Shri Premal Nanavaty, learned Advocate appearing on behalf  of   the   appellant   in   First   Appeal   No.587/2018   has   adopted   the  submissions   made   by   Shri   Dave,   learned   Counsel   appearing   on  behalf   of   the   appellant   of   First   Appeal   No.588/2018   and   has  requested to quash and set aside the impugned order and allow the  application under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 preferred  by the original defendant No.1. 
[7.0] Both   these   appeals   are   vehemently  opposed   by   Shri   Shalin  Mehta,   learned   Counsel   appearing   on   behalf   of   the   respondent  No.1   herein   -   original   plaintiff.   Shri   Mehta,   learned   Counsel  appearing   on   behalf   of   the   original   plaintiff   has   vehemently  submitted   that   in   the   facts   and   circumstances   of   the   case   the  learned   Commercial   Court   has   rightly   rejected   the   application  under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 and has rightly not  referred the matter to the arbitration. 
C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT [7.1] It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Mehta,   learned   Counsel  appearing   on   behalf   of   the   original   plaintiff   that   as   such   the  original suit has been preferred as a mortgage suit. That the prayer  in the suit is to restrained the Bank of Baroda i.e. respondent No.2  herein   -   original   defendant   No.2   from   releasing   its   equitable  mortgage   in   favour   of   the   plaintiff,   in   favour   of   defendant   No.1  without consent of the plaintiff as per the terms of the tripartite  agreement. It is submitted that there is an equitable mortgage by  deposit of title deeds of the suit property in favour of the Bank of  Baroda. It is submitted that the amount advanced by the Bank of  Baroda to the original defendant No.1 was paid over to the Gujarat  Composite Limited. It is submitted that therefore the mortgage suits  are excluded from the coverage of section 8 of the Arbitration Act,  1996 and therefore, the same is not arbitrable. It is submitted that  the   commercial   suit   which   is   preferred   is   also   a   suit   for  enforcement of mortgage being an enforcement of a  right in rem  and hence, the same is to be adjudicated by the Courts of law and  not by the Arbitral Tribunal. In support of his above submissions,  Shri  Mehta,  learned  Counsel  appearing  on  behalf  of  the   original  plaintiff has relied upon the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court  in the case of  Booz Allen Hamilton Inc. vs. SBI Home Finance  Ltd. reported in (2011)5 SCC 532 (Paras 21 to 30). 
[7.2]   It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Mehta,   learned   Counsel  appearing   on   behalf   of   the   original   plaintiff   that   though   the  mortgage   is   in   existence,   the   original   defendant   No.1   time   and  again approached the Bank of Baroda to release all the title deeds  and therefore, specific relief has been sought against the Bank of  C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT Baroda for not releasing the same. 
[7.3]   It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Mehta,   learned   Counsel  appearing   on   behalf   of   the   original   plaintiff   that   tripartite  agreement, based on which certain reliefs have been even prayed in  the suit does not have any provision of arbitration. 
[7.4]   It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Mehta,   learned   Counsel  appearing on behalf of the original plaintiff that as per the settled  law, the suit is required to referred to arbitration only when the  entire subject matter of the suit is subject to arbitration agreement.  It is submitted that in the present case the suit is not only founded  upon the license agreement, but also the tripartite agreement. It is  submitted   that   tripartite   agreement   is   not   under   the   purview   of  arbitration because the same does not provide for arbitration. It is  submitted   that   like   the   supplementary   agreement,   which   is  ancillary to the license agreement, the tripartite agreement is not  ancillary to the license agreement. It is submitted that the tripartite  agreement   is   altogether   an   independent   agreement   between   the  original plaintiff, original defendant No.1 and the Bank of Baroda.  It is submitted that the Bank of Baroda who is party to the tripartite  agreement is as such is not a party to the license agreement which  contains the arbitration clause. It is submitted that thus the subject  matter of the present suit is not fully covered by arbitration and  therefore,   the   suit   is   not   required   to   be   sent   to   arbitration.   In  support   of   his   above   submissions,   Shri   Mehta,   learned   Counsel  appearing on behalf of the original plaintiff has heavily relied upon  the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Sukanya  C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT Holdings   (P)   Ltd.   (Supra)   (Paras   8,   14   to   18)   as   well   as   the  decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of S.N. Prasad,  Hitek Industries (Bihar) Limited vs. Monnet Finance Limited &  Ors.  reported   in  (2011)1   SCC   320  as   well   as   in   the   case   of  Deutsche Post Bank Home Finance Limited vs. Taduri Sridhar  and Anr. reported in (2011) 11 SCC 375. 
[7.5]   It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Mehta,   learned   Counsel  appearing on behalf of the original plaintiff that even though the  original title deeds are even today with the original defendant No.2 
-  Bank  of Baroda   and  an undertaking was  given by the original  defendant No.1 to this effect, the original defendant No.1 behind  the   back   of   the   Band   of   Baroda   and   even   the   plaintiff   has   sold  portions   of   unit   land  to  third  parties  and  such  third  parties   had  initiated process for mutation of the said land. It is submitted that  the   said   sale   deeds   have   been   executed   with   malicious   and  malafide   intentions   and  knowledge.   It   is  submitted  that   the   sale  deeds for which the prayer is sought in the suit to quash and set  aside   the   same   are   nothing   but   fraud   played   by   the   appellant   -  original defendant No.1, alongwith the original defendant Nos.3 to  5   with   the   original   defendant   Nos.1   and   2.   It   is   submitted   that  therefore when there is a fraud, which is apparent on the record,  the said issue can only be settled by the Court through furtherance  of detailed evidence and not by arbitration. In support of his above  submissions, Shri Mehta, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of  the original plaintiff has heavily relied upon the decisions of the  Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of N. Radhakrishnan vs. M/s.  Maestro Engineers & Ors. reported in (2010) 1 SCC 72 and in the  C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT case of A. Ayyasamy (Supra). It is further submitted by Shri Mehta,  learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the original plaintiff that  even   otherwise   the   suit   in   question   involves   complicated   issues  involving facts and law and hence also, the commercial court shall  be the appropriate Forum to adjudicate and decide the said issues. 
[7.6]   It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Mehta,   learned   Counsel  appearing on behalf of the original plaintiff that even sale of the  units   land   by   the   original   defendant   No.1   is   even   in   blanket  violation   of   the   interim   order   dated   22.12.2006   passed   by   this  Court   in   Civil   Application   No.8943/2006   in   Special   Civil  Application   No.2212/2004,   wherein   this   Court   while   specifically  permitting the original defendant No.1 to sell 6500 sq.  meter of  units land property,  specifically restrained the original  defendant  No.1   from   disposing   of   any   part   of   the   said   land   without   the  express permission  of this Court. It is submitted that despite the  above the original defendant No.1 has executed the sale deeds in  favour   of   the   original   defendant   Nos.3   to   5   which   as   such   is   in  contravention to the directions issued by this Court. It is submitted  that even the said sale deeds, which are under challenge, are also  in   contravention   of   the   undertaking   as   submitted   before   the  Industrial Tribunal. 
[7.7]   It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Mehta,   learned   Counsel  appearing   on   behalf   of   the   original   plaintiff   that   the   arbitration  shall   not   entirely   cover   all   the   disputes   between   the   original  plaintiff   and   the   original   defendant   No.1   as   there   are   parties  involved   and  also   the   entire   disputes  are   not   covered   under   the  C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT arbitration agreement. 
[7.8]   It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Mehta,   learned   Counsel  appearing on behalf of the original plaintiff that the alleged dispute  related to several transactions under various separate documents /  agreements,   which   does   not   provide   for   arbitration   as   a   dispute  resolution mechanism. It is further submitted that in the suit there  are third parties to whom the agreements have been executed by  the original defendant No.1 which are sought to be quashed and set  aside   and   as   they   are   not   party   to   the   license   agreement   and  therefore also, the matter is not arbitrable. 
[7.9]   It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Mehta,   learned   Counsel  appearing   on   behalf   of   the   original   plaintiff   that   that   original  defendant Nos.2 to 5 against whom the specific reliefs have been  prayed are not forming part of the main agreement and hence, no  arbitration can be undertaken against them. It is submitted that in  the   present   case   even   the   original   defendant   Nos.2   -   Bank   of  Baroda   have   also   filed   their   detailed   objections   before   the  Commercial Court against the matter being sent for arbitration and  infact they have not consented to the same. 
[7.10]  It is further submitted by Shri Mehta, learned Counsel  appearing on behalf of the original plaintiff that it is not possible to  institute   a   separate   suit   against   the   Bank   for   enforcement   of  mortgage without joining original defendant Nos.1, 3, 4 and 5. It is  submitted that the principal prayer in the suit is to not release the  equitable   mortgage   in   favour   of   the   original   defendant   No.1  without the plaintiff's consent. It is submitted that since the relief is  C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT sought   against   the   bank   i.e.   original   defendant   No.2   and   the  original   defendant   No.1,   both   will   have   to   be   joined   as   party  defendants   in   the   original   suit.   It   is   submitted   that   during   the  subsistence   of   the   license   and   tripartite   agreement,   the   original  defendant   No.1   has   sold   the   mortgaged   properties   to   defendant  Nos.3   to   5   and   the   said   defendants   want   the   title   deeds   of   the  mortgaged properties from the Bank. It is submitted that therefore,  these   bonafide   purchasers   will   have   to   be   joined   as   party  defendants   in   the   original   suit   also   without   which   the   suit   will  suffer from non­joinder of necessary parties. It is submitted that as  held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Sukanya Holdings  (P) Ltd. (Supra), bifurcation of the claims and cause of action is not  permissible. 
Making above submissions and relying upon the decision of  the Hon'ble  Supreme Court in the case of Sukanya Holdings (P)  Ltd. (Supra) and the decision of the Division Bench of this Court in  the   case   of  Amin   Associates   vs.   Bharatbhai   Purshottambhai  Patel   &   Ors.  rendered   in  Special   Civil   Application  No.18399/2016 (Paras 6.1 to 6.10), it is requested to dismiss the  present First Appeals. 
[8.0] Heard learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the respective  parties   at   length.   Considered   and   perused   the   impugned   order  passed   by   the   learned   Commercial   Court   by   which   the   learned  Commercial   Court   has   rejected   the   application   submitted   by   the  original defendant No.1 to refer the dispute / matter to arbitration  in exercise of powers under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1996.  While considering the issue involved in the present First Appeals  C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT viz.  whether   in   the   facts   and   circumstances   of   the   case   the  learned Commercial Court has committed any error in rejecting  application under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act,  law on the  point and few decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court as well as  this Court are required to be discussed and considered, which are  as under:
[8.1] First   decision   on   the   point   is   the   decision   of   the   Hon'ble  Supreme Court in the case of Sukanya Holdings (P) Ltd. (Supra).  While considering the applicability of section 8 of the Arbitration  Act, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has observed and held that where  a suit is commenced in respect of a matter which falls partly within  the  arbitration   agreement   and  partly  outside   and  which  involves  parties   some   of   whom   are   parties   to   the   arbitration   agreement  while   some   are   not   so,   section   8   of   the   Arbitration   Act   is   not  attracted. While interpreting word "a matter" in section 8 of the  Arbitration Act, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has observed and held  that words "a matter" in section 8 indicate that the entire subject  matter of the suit should be subject to arbitration agreement. It is  further observed and held that there is no provision in the Act for  bifurcation   of   the   suit   into   two   parts,   (1)   to   be   referred   to  arbitration   for   adjudication   and   (2)   to   be   decided   by   the   Civil  Court. It is further observed and held that neither section 5 of the  Arbitration Act nor section 89 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908  nor section 34 of the Arbitration Act, 1940 can be resorted to for  interpreting   section   8.   Before   the   Hon'ble   Supreme   Court   the  learned Counsel appearing for a party to the arbitration agreement  submitted  under   section   8   of   the   Arbitration   Act,   the   Court   was  C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT required to refer the dispute arising because of the dissolution of  the   partnership   firm   to   the   arbitrator   as   contemplated   by   the  arbitration clause. It was further submitted that in any case there is  no bar in referring the dispute which arises between the parties to  the agreement - some of the parties to the suit, who are bound by  the   agreement,   to  the   Arbitrator   as  envisaged  in   the  partnership  deed. It was next contended that if the interpretation given by the  High Court is accepted (not to refer the matter to the arbitration for  adjudication), arbitration clause could be defeated by an interested  party   by   adding   some   reliefs   which   are   not   covered   by   the  arbitration clause or by adding a few parties who are not bound by  the   arbitration   clause.   It   was   submitted   that   such   interpretation  would be against the object and purpose of the Arbitration Act and  against the spirit of section 89 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908.  It was further submitted that the third parties who purchased the  flat   which   were   stock   in   trade   of   the   firm   and   entered   into  transactions in connection with the business of the firm, are not  necessary parties to the disputes amongst the partners relating to  dissolution   and   account   of   the   firm   and   therefore,   the   dispute  ought to have been referred to the arbitrator. On the other hand, it  was the case on behalf of the other side that the dispute in the suit  and/or   a   matter   in   the   suit   is   not   required   to   be   referred   to  arbitrator as the plaintiffs have prayed various reliefs in the suit  which   could   not   be   referred   to   arbitrator   and   that   some   of   the  defendants are not parties to the arbitration agreement. By holding  the order passed by the High Court rejecting section 8 application  preferred   by   the   original   defendant   Nos.1   and   2,   the   Hon'ble  Supreme Court has observed and held in paras 11 to 17 as under:
C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT "11. For   appreciating   the   contentions   raised   by   the   learned  counsel for the parties, we would refer to the relevant provisions  namely Sections 5 and 8 of the Act, which are as under: 
"5. Extent of judicial intervention.­Notwithstanding anything  contained in any other law for the time being in force, in matters  governed by this Part, no judicial authority shall intervene except  where so provided in this Part. 
8. Power to refer parties to arbitration where there is an  arbitration   agreement.   (1)   A   judicial   authority   before   which   an  action is brought in a matter which is the subject of an arbitration  agreement shall, if a party so applies not later than when submitting  his first statement on the substance of the dispute, refer the parties  to arbitration. 
(2) The application referred to in sub­section (1) shall not be  entertained   unless   it   is   accompanied   by   the   original   arbitration  agreement or a duly certified copy thereof. 
(3)   Notwithstanding   that   an   application   has   been   made  under   sub­section   (1)   and   that   the   issue   is   pending   before   the  judicial authority, an arbitration may be commenced or continued  and an arbitral award made." 
(emphasis supplied)
12. For interpretation of Section 8, Section 5 would have  no   bearing   because   it   only   contemplates   that   in   the   matters  governed by Part­I of the Act, Judicial authority shall not intervene  except where so provided in the Act. Except  Section 8, there is no  other   provision   in   the   Act   that   in   a   pending   suit,   the   dispute   is  required to be referred to the arbitrator. Further, the matter is not  required to be referred to the arbitral Tribunal, if (1) the parties to  the   arbitration  agreement  have   not filed   any  such  application  for  referring the dispute to the arbitrator; (2) in a pending suit, such  application   is   not   filed   before   submitting   first   statement   on   the  substance of the dispute; or (3) such application is not accompanied  by the original arbitration agreement or duly certified copy thereof.  This would, therefore, mean that  Arbitration Act does not oust the  jurisdiction of the Civil Court to decide the dispute in a case where  parties to the Arbitration Agreement do not take appropriate steps as  contemplated under sub­ sections (1) & (2) of Section 8 of the Act. 
13. Secondly, there is no provision in the Act that when  the   subject   matter   of   the   suit   includes   subject   matter   of   the  arbitration   agreement   as   well   as   other   disputes,   the   matter   is  required to be referred to arbitration. There is also no provision for  splitting the cause or parties and referring the subject matter of the  suit to the arbitrators. 
14. Thirdly, there is no provision as to what is required to  be done in a case where some parties to the suit are not parties to  C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT the arbitration agreement. As against this, under  Section 24 of the  Arbitration Act, 1940, some of the parties to a suit could apply that  the matters in difference  between them be referred to arbitration  and the Court may refer the same to arbitration provided that the  same can be separated from the rest of the subject matter of the suit.  Section also provided that the suit would continue so far as it related  to parties who have not joined in such application. 
15. The relevant language used in Section 8 is "in a matter   which   is   the   subject   matter   of   an   arbitration   agreement",   Court   is  required to refer the parties to arbitration. Therefore, the suit should  be in respect of 'a matter' which the parties have agreed to refer and  which   comes   within   the   ambit   of   arbitration   agreement.   Where,  however, a suit is commenced ­ "as to a matter" which lies outside  the arbitration agreement and is also between some of the parties  who   are   not   parties   to   the   arbitration   agreement,   there   is   no  question of application of  Section 8. The words 'a matter' indicates  entire   subject   matter   of   the   suit   should   be   subject   to   arbitration  agreement. 
16. The next question which requires consideration is even  if there is no provision for partly referring the dispute to arbitration,  whether such a course is possible under Section 8 of the Act? In our  view,   it   would   be   difficult   to   give   an   interpretation   to  Section   8  under   which   bifurcation   of  the  cause   of   action   that   is   to   say  the  subject matter of the suit or in some cases bifurcation of the suit  between parties who are parties to the arbitration agreement and  others   is   possible.   This   would   be   laying   down   a   totally   new  procedure   not   contemplated   under   the   Act.   If   bifurcation   of   the  subject   matter   of   a   suit   was   contemplated,   the   legislature   would  have used appropriate language to permit such a course. Since there  is no such indication in the language, it follows that bifurcation of  the subject matter of an action brought before a judicial authority is  not allowed. 
17. Secondly, such bifurcation of suit in two parts, one to  be decided by the arbitral tribunal and other to be decided by the  civil   court   would   inevitably   delay   the   proceedings.   The   whole  purpose   of   speedy   disposal   of   dispute   and   decreasing   the   cost  of  litigation   would   be   frustrated   by   such   procedure.   It   would   also  increase the cost of litigation and harassment to the parties and on  occasions there is possibility of conflicting judgments and orders by  two different forums." 
[8.2] In   the   case   of   S.N.   Prasad   (Supra),   the   Hon'ble   Supreme  Court   has   observed   and  held   that   reference   to   arbitration   under  section 8 can be only with respect to parties to arbitration and not  C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT the non­parties. At this stage it is required to be noted that in the  case   before   the   Hon'ble   Supreme   Court   a   non­party   to   the  arbitration   agreement   was   impleaded   as   a   respondent   in   the  arbitration   proceedings   and   the   award   was   passed   against   non­ party   to   the   arbitration   agreement   and   thereafter   the   Hon'ble  Supreme   Court   quashed   and   set   aside   the   award   passed   by   the  Arbitrator   which   was   passed   against   the   non­party   to   the  arbitration agreement by observing that there was no arbitration  agreement  between  the  parties,   impleadment  of  the   appellant  in  that case (non­party to the arbitration agreement) as a respondent  in   the   arbitration   proceedings   and   the   award   against   such   third  party in such arbitration cannot be sustained. A similar view has  been taken by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Essar Oil  Ltd. vs. Hindustan Shipyard Ltd. reported in (2015) 10 SCC 642  and in the case of Kantilal Ambalal Patel & Ors. vs. Jalaram Land  Developers & Ors. reported in 2014 (1) GLR 331. 
[8.3] Following the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the  case   of   Sukanya   Holdings   (P)   Ltd.   (Supra)   as   well   as   the  subsequent decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of  M/s. Sundaram Finance Ltd. and Anr. (Supra) and other decisions  of the Hon'ble Supreme Court on the point, in the similar set of  facts   and   circumstances,   the   Division   Bench  of   this   Court   in   the  case   of   Amin   Associates   (Supra)   has   referred   the   matter   to   the  arbitrator by observing that considering the reliefs sought / prayed  in   the   suit   which   as   such   are  are   against   non­party   to   the  arbitration  agreement also,  it will not be proper  to bifurcate  the  dispute between the parties to the arbitration agreement and non­ parties   to   the   arbitration   agreement   and   thereafter   the   Division  Bench   of   this   Court   in   the   aforesaid   decision   has   confirmed   the  order passed by the learned Commercial Court rejecting application  C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 and not referring the  dispute / parties to the suit for arbitration. 
[8.4] Applying the law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in  the aforesaid decisions and the decision of this Court in the case of  Amin Associates (Supra) to the facts of the case on hand and the  averments in the plaint, pleadings on the cause of action and the  reliefs   prayed   in   the   suit,   which   are   against   the   parties   to   the  arbitration   agreement   as   well   as   non­parties   to   the   arbitration  agreement, it is required to be considered whether in the facts and  circumstances   of   the   case   the   learned   Commercial   Court   has  committed   any   error   in   rejecting   section   8   application   and   not  referring the parties / dispute in the suit for arbitration?
[8.5] In the present case as observed herein above there are license  agreements containing the arbitration clause, executed between the  plaintiff and the original defendant No.1 on one hand. Admittedly,  the original defendant Nos.2 to 5 are not party to the arbitration  agreement.   There   is   a   tripartite   agreement   between   the   original  plaintiff, original defendant No.1 and the original defendant No.2  (Bank   of   Baroda)   under   which   the   plaintiff   and   the   original  defendant No.2 have prayed the reliefs. It is an admitted position  that   in   the   tripartite   agreement   between   the   original   plaintiff,  original defendant No.1 and the original defendant No.2 (Bank of  Baroda), there does not exist any arbitration agreement. Under the  tripartite   agreement   the   original   defendant   No.1   has   placed   the  title deeds and the said tripartite agreement as such can be said to  be   an   independent   agreement   and   under   the   said   tripartite  agreement there is a mortgage by deposit of title deeds in respect of  immovables   and   hypothecation   of   movables.   It   appears   that   the  said   tripartite   agreement   was   executed   while   sanctioning   a  corporate loan of Rs.500 lakh in favour of the original plaintiff and  C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT the  charge   and  mortgage   has  been  created  in  favour  of  Bank  of  Baroda   -   original   defendant   No.2.   It   appears   that   during   the  pendency and subsistence of the aforesaid mortgage and as alleged  by   the   original   plaintiff   surreptitiously   and   in   breach   of   the  injunction granted by this Court as well as the undertaking before  the Industrial Tribunal, the original defendant No.1 has sold some  of   the   properties   (mortgaged   properties)   in   favour   of   original  defendant   Nos.3   to   5.   In   light   of   the   above   broad   facts   and  averments in the plaint, pleadings on the cause of action and the  reliefs sought are required to be considered. 
[8.6] In   the   plaint   in   Commercial   Civil   Suit   No.90/2017,   the  plaintiff has sought the relief against the following defendants:
1. Gujarat Composite Limited
2. Bank of Baroda
3. Real Home Corporation - a partnership firm
4. M/s. Raj Corporation (Confirming Party) - partnership firm
5. RJD Buildcon Ltd. 
The suit is filed for recovery of legitimate dues, cancellation  of sale deed and for permanent injunction. In the suit the plaintiff  has prayed for the following reliefs.
"(A) This   Hon'ble   Court   may   be   pleased   to   direct   the  defendant   No.1   to   pay   to   the   Plaintiff   herein   a   sum   of  Rs.32.66 Crores with interest @ 14% per annum from the  date of suit till realization herein under this decree and  any further orders to be passed by this Hon'ble Court;
(B) This   Hon'ble   Court   may   be   pleased   to   hold   and  declare that the Deeds of Conveyance dated 23rd January,  2015   registered   vide   registration   no.742   and   750,  executed by defendant No.1 in favour of defendant Nos.3  and 5, as null and void;
C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT (C) This Hon'ble Court may be pleased to permanently  restrain the defendant Nos.1, 3, 4 and 5 or their agent,  executors or administrators from disturbing or obstruction  the   plaintiff's   occupation   possession   of  the   suit   property  till the plaintiff claim made in para (a) and (b) above is  fully discharged;
(D) This   Hon'ble   Court   may   be   pleased   to   direct   the  defendant No.2 Bank not to release original title papers  and   other   relevant   documents   in   favour   of   defendant  Nos.1, 3 and/or 4;
(E) This   Hon'ble   Court   may   be   pleased   to   hold   and  declare   that   the   Conveyance   Deed   dated   23rd  January,  2015   entered   into   between   the   defendant   No.1   and  defendant No.3 to 5 as null and void;
(F) This   Hon'ble   Court   may   be   pleased   to   direct   the  defendant No.2 to take over all the current assets of the  plaintiff pertaining to or in connection with the operation  of   A.C.   Sheet   and   Cement   Manufacturing   unit   under  license agreement at their book value and make payment  to the plaintiff for the current assets available at the time  of handing over of the possession, if required;"
[8.7] Necessary   pleadings   in   the   plaint   with   respect   to   cause   of  action are as under: 
1. The   cause   of   action   has   arisen   when   the   defendant   No.1,  behind   the   back   of   the   plaintiff,   entered   into   Conveyance  Deed with defendant no.3 and defendant No.5.
2. Even the original title deeds and other documents partially  pertaining to the suit property are in the custody of defendant  No.2 Bank and by suppressing the fact that the plaintiff has  absolute   right   over   the   suit   property   qua   possession,   the  defendant   No.1   has   entered   into   Conveyance   Deed   with  defendant No.3 and defendant No.5 stating that suit property  is free from any encumbrance and/or mortgage.
C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT
3. That the cause of action for filing the suit has arisen because  the defendant No.3 and defendant No.5 made an application  to mutate the entry in the revenue record in regard to the  Deed   of   Conveyance.   As   the   plaintiff   is   legitimately   in  possession of the suit property by virtue of license agreement,  supplementary agreement, tripartite and amended tripartite  agreement,   it   vehemently   opposed   the   said   entry   and  ultimately the authority concerned rejected the application of  the defendant No.3 and defendant No.5 for mutation of entry  in regard to Conveyance Deed. Thus the mutation entry with  regard to mortgage of the suit property with defendant No.2  Bank   still   exists   and   the   defendant   No.2   Bank   has   not  removed / revoked the said mortgage.
4. That though the plaintiff is in possession of the suit property  by   virtue   of   license   agreement,   supplementary   agreement,  tripartite agreement and amended tripartite agreement, the  defendant No.1; behind the back of the plaintiff, entered into  Conveyance Deed with defendant No.3 and defendant No.5.
5. The   defendant   No.1   even   did   not   part   with   the   sale  consideration   with   the   plaintiff   which   it   has   received   from  defendant   No.3   and  defendant   No.5   for   conveying   the   suit  property to defendant No.3 and defendant No.5. 
6. That the cause of action for filing the suit has arisen also as  defendant   No.1   had   defaulted   in   repayment   to   Punjab  National Bank  and hence  was  not  in  a  position  to  get  any  loan   whatsoever   in   its   own   capacity   from   any   financial  institution,   and   as   it   was   in   need   of   financial   assistance,  defendant   No.1   requested   the   plaintiff   for   financial   help,  because   of   which   plaintiff   obtained   corporate   loan   of  Rs.05.00   Crores   on   its   name   from   defendant   No.2   and  advanced the same to defendant No.1.
C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT
7. Even during the currency of the license agreement, plaintiff  has   paid   other   amounts   also   for   and   on   behalf   of   the  defendant No.1 towards wages to the workers, revenue taxes,  electricity bills, excise duty, etc. 
8. The   cause   of   action   has  arisen   because   in   lieu   of   all  these  financial   help   from   plaintiff,   defendant   No.1   entered   into  tripartite   agreement   and   subsequently   amended   tripartite  agreement with plaintiff and defendant No.2 Bank, whereby  defendant No.1 mortgaged the suit property with defendant  No.2 Bank and stood as guarantor towards the corporate loan  which was obtained by plaintiff in its name to help out the  defendant   No.1,  wherein   it   has  been   specifically   agreed   by  defendant No.1 that unless all and full legitimate dues of the  plaintiff has been paid up, plaintiff shall enjoy the possession  of the suit property.
9. That the cause of action for filing of the suit has arisen also  because the plaintiff has to recover Rs.32.66 Crores from the  defendant   No.1   towards   corporate   loan   and  other   amount,  which the plaintiff has advanced to the defendant No.1.
[8.8] Considering the above and the reliefs prayed / sought in the  suit, it can be said that the prayer in terms of para 33(A) can be  said to be against the original defendant No.1 who is a party to the  arbitration agreement contained in the license agreement. Prayer in  terms of paras 33(B), 33(C) and 33(E) can be said to be against the  original defendant No.1 and original defendant Nos.3 to 5. Original  defendant Nos.3 to 5 are not party to the arbitration agreement and  as such they are third parties who have alleged to have purchased  the   properties   from   the   original   defendant   No.1   during   the  subsistence of the license agreement as well as they have purchased  the   said   property   surreptitiously.   The   prayer   in   terms   of   paras  C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT 33(D) and 33(F) can be said to be against the original defendant  No.2   -   Bank   of   Baroda   who   admittedly   is   not   a   party   to   the  arbitration agreement. All these reliefs are interconnected and the  reliefs sought in the plaint are on the basis of multiple cause of  actions   and   multiple   reliefs   against   the   defendants   and   it   is   not  possible to bifurcate the dispute in the suit between the plaintiff  and   the   original   defendant   No.1   (parties   to   the   arbitration  agreement)   and   the   original   plaintiff   and   the   original   defendant  Nos.2 to 5 (non­parties to the arbitration agreement). Therefore,  applying the law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the  case   of   Sukanya   Holdings   (P)   Ltd.   (Supra)   and   other   decisions  referred   to   herein   above,   it   cannot   be   said   that   the   learned  Commercial Court has committed any error in rejecting section 8  application and refusing to refer the matter / dispute in the suit for  arbitration. 
[8.9] Now,   so   far   as   the   decisions   relied   upon   by   the   learned  Counsel   appearing   on   behalf   of   the   original   defendant   No.1  referred   to   herein   above   are   concerned,   on   considering   the   said  decisions, we are of the opinion that none of the decisions shall be  applicable to the facts of the case on hand. 
[8.10] Now, so far as the reliance placed upon the decision of  the   Hon'ble   Supreme   Court   in   the   case   of  M/s.   Srivenkateswara  Constructions & Ors. (Supra) by the learned Counsel appearing on  behalf of the original defendant No.1 is concerned, on considering  the said decision we are of the opinion that the said decision shall  not be applicable to the facts of the case on hand. In the case before  the   Hon'ble   Supreme   Court   the   reliefs   claimed   in   the   suit   were  found to be flowing from a single cause of action. Dispute in the  suit was between the plaintiff contractor against the first defendant  Railways, both of whom were parties to the arbitration agreement. 
C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT On facts the Hon'ble Supreme Court found that the relief sought  against the original defendant No.2 (non­party to the arbitration  agreement) was wholly unnecessary having regard to the gist of the  plaint. On facts it was observed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court that  prayer (B) sought against the original defendant No.2 - non­party  to the arbitration  agreement was really not an independent one.  The plaintiffs also did not separately valued the said relief though a  decree for declaration was asked in favour of all the plaintiffs as  regards   enforceability   of   the   Bank   Guarantee.   Under   the  circumstances,   on   facts,   the   said   decision   shall   not   be   of   any  assistance to the original defendant No.1. 
[8.11] Now,   so   far   as   the   decision   of   the   Hon'ble   Supreme  Court in the case of Afcons Infrastructure Ltd. (Supra) relied upon  by   the   learned   Counsel   appearing   on   behalf   of   the   original  defendant No.1 is concerned, at the outset it is required to be noted  that   there   cannot   be   any   dispute   to   the   proposition   of   law   laid  down   by   the   Hon'ble   Supreme   Court   on   the   need  of  the   day  to  exercise powers under Section 89 of the Code of Civil Procedure,  1908. However, at the same time in the said decision the Hon'ble  Supreme   Court   has   specifically   observed   that   if   there   is   no  agreement   between   the   parties   for   reference   to   arbitration,   the  Court cannot refer the matter to arbitration under Section 89 of the  Code   of   Civil   Procedure,   1908.   In   the   said   decision   it   is   further  observed   that   a  Court   has  no power,   authority   or  jurisdiction   to  refer   unwilling   party   to   arbitration,   if   there   is   no   arbitration  agreement. Under the circumstances, the decision  of the Hon'ble  Supreme Court in the case of the Afcons Constructions Ltd. (Supra)  shall not be of any assistance to the original defendant No.1 in the  facts and circumstances of the case. 
Similarly,   the   decision   of   the   learned   Single   Judge   of   the  C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT Bombay   High   Court   in   the   case   of   A.B.K.   Dubhash   and   Others  (Supra) relied upon by the learned Counsel appearing on behalf of  the original defendant No.1 also shall not be applicable to the facts  of the case on hand. In the said case on facts it was observed by the  Bombay   High   Court   that   one   of   the   party   to   the   arbitration  agreement wanted to frustrate the purpose of the whole arbitration  agreement by joining some third person / party to the suit and by  overlooking the basic facts and agreement between the parties. In  the present case as observed herein above as such it cannot be said  that the original defendant Nos.2 to 5 who are non­party to the  arbitration agreement are joined in the suit to frustrate the whole  purpose of arbitration agreement. 
[8.12] Similarly, the decision of the Delhi High Court in the  case of WPIL (Supra) also shall not be applicable to the facts of the  case on hand. In the case before the Delhi High Court on facts it  was found by the Delhi High Court that non­parties to the two sets  of arbitration agreements are neither necessary, nor proper for the  adjudication of disputes. In the case before the Delhi High Court  the   plaintiff   failed   to   show   how   the   defendants   who   were   non­ parties to the arbitration agreement had any concern or connection  with the dispute relating to termination of contract or the dispute  with   respect   to   alleged   breach   of   the   terms   of   the   project  agreement. On facts it was held that there was no dispute between  the plaintiff and non­parties to the arbitration agreement. On the  contrary in para 24 the Delhi High Court has specifically observed  that the observations of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of  Sukanya   Holdings   (P)   Ltd.   (Supra)   suggests   that   the   suit   claims  cannot be bifurcated / split up into arbitrable and non­arbitrable  disputes. It is further observed that the said conclusion is not only  logical but also in tune with the law that a plaint cannot be partly  C/FA/588/2018 JUDGMENT rejected. 
[8.13] Considering   the   facts   and   circumstances   of   the   case  narrated   herein   above   and   the   law   laid   down   by   the   Hon'ble  Supreme Court in the case of Sukanya Holdings Pvt. Ltd. (Supra)  and other decisions referred to herein above, it cannot be said that  the learned Commercial Court has committed any error in rejecting  the application under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 and  refusing to refer the dispute / matter for arbitration. On facts it is  not proper, advisable and/or possible to bifurcate the disputes viz.  arbitrable and non­arbitrable. We are in complete agreement with  the view taken by the learned Commercial Court while rejecting the  application under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1996.
[9.0] In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, both  these First Appeals fail and the same deserve to be dismissed and  are,   accordingly,   dismissed.   However,   in   the   facts   and  circumstances of the case, there shall be no order as to costs. 
Sd/­              (M.R. SHAH, J.)  Sd/­          (A.Y. KOGJE, J.)  Ajay**