Take notes as you read a judgment using our Virtual Legal Assistant and get email alerts whenever a new judgment matches your query (Query Alert Service). Try out our Premium Member Services -- Sign up today and get free trial for one month.
Karnataka High Court
The Agricultural Produce Market ... vs Kishan Khandelwal And Anr on 20 June, 2023
Author: B.M.Shyam Prasad
Bench: B.M.Shyam Prasad
                                                -1-
                                                  NC: 2023:KHC-K:1293-DB
                                                      COMAP No. 200001 of 2023




                               IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA,
                                       KALABURAGI BENCH
                             DATED THIS THE 20TH DAY OF JUNE, 2023
                                            PRESENT
                           THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE B.M.SHYAM PRASAD
                                               AND
                             THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE UMESH M ADIGA

                             COMMERCIAL APPEAL NO.200001 OF 2023

                      BETWEEN:
                           THE AGRICULTURAL PRODUCE
                           MARKET COMMITTEE
                           NEHRU GUNJ, KALABURAGI
                           REPRESENTED BY ITS SECRETARY
                           APMC KALABURAGI

                                                                ...APPELLANT
                      (BY SRI AMEET KUMAR DESHPANDE, SENIOR COUNSEL FOR
                      SRI GOURISH S. KHASHAMPUR, ADVOCATE)
Digitally signed by
SOMANATH              AND:
PENTAPPA MITTE
Location: HIGH
COURT OF              1.   SRI KISHAN KHANDELWAL
KARNATAKA
                           S/O RAMACHANDRA
                           AGED ABOUT: 75 YEARS
                           OCC: CLASS -I CONTRACTOR
                           R/O: HOUSE NO. L/281
                           NIJALINGAPPA NAGAR,
                           RAICHUR- 583 101

                      2.   SRI S.R UJJANKOP
                           SOLE ARBITRATOR AND
                           ENGINEER-IN-CHIEF (RETIRED)
                           NO.9031, SECTOR- XI
                               -2-
                                NC: 2023:KHC-K:1293-DB
                                    COMAP No. 200001 of 2023




    MAHANTESH NAGAR
    BELAGAVI- 590 016

                                           ...RESPONDENTS
(BY SRI MANVENDRA REDDY, ADVOCATE FOR R1;
NOTICE TO R2 DISPENSED WITH V/O DATED 22.02.2023)

      THIS COMMERCIAL APPEAL IS FILED UNDER SECTION
13 (1A) OF COMMERCIAL COURTS, COMMERCIAL DIVISION,
COMMERCIAL APPELLATE DIVISION OF HIGH COURT ACT,
2015 R/W SECTION 37 OF THE ARBITRATION AND
CONCILIATION ACT, 1996, PRAYING TO ALLOW THIS APPEAL
AND SET ASIDE THE ORDER DATED 03.12.2021 PASSED ON
I.A.NO.1 AND ON MAINTAINABILITY OF COMMERCIAL
ARBITRATION SUIT PASSED BY THE PRL. DISTRICT COURT
AND     COMMERCIAL    COURT    AT   KALABURAGI,   IN
COMMERCIAL ARBITRATION SUIT NO.06/2019 AND TO PASS
ANY OTHER APPROPRIATE ORDERS AS MAY BE DEEMED
NECESSARY IN THE FACTS AND CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE
CASE, IN THE INTEREST OF JUSTICE AND EQUITY.


      THIS APPEAL COMING ON FOR ORDERS, THIS DAY,
B.M. SHYAM PRASAD, J., DELIVERED THE FOLLOWING:

                        JUDGMENT
This appeal under Section 37 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 [for short, 'the Arbitration Act'] is filed calling in question the order dated 03.12.2021 in Commercial Arbitration Suit No.6/2019 on the file of the Principal District Judge, Kalaburagi, [for short, 'the commercial Court']. The commercial Court, by the impugned order dated 03.12.2021, has rejected the NC: 2023:KHC-K:1293-DB appellant's application [I.A.No.I] filed under Section 5 of the Limitation Act, 1963 [for short, 'the Limitation Act'] for condonation of the delay of more than 200 days refusing to entertain the application filed under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act.
2. At the threshold, this Court must record that the first respondent's claim petition before an Arbitral Tribunal has culminated in the award dated 13.05.2016 granting certain relief to the respondents including the refund of Rs.89,49,492/- retained by the appellant. The first respondent has filed its application under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act in AS No.3/2017, and this application being belated, has sought for condonation of delay in filing such application. The commercial Court by a separate order has rejected the respondent's application for condonation of delay in filing its application. The first respondent has not challenged this order.
3. The appellant, upon service of notice of the respondent's application in AS No.3/2017, has filed its NC: 2023:KHC-K:1293-DB detailed counter claim, and after more than two years from the date of filing such counter claim, the appellant has filed the present suit in A S No.6/2019 under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act along with an application for condonation of delay. The appellant has filed this application for condonation of delay under Section 5 of the Limitation Act without mentioning the actual period of delay, but in support of the application for condonation of delay, the appellant has contended that the delay is because of the constant transfers of the concerned officers and the delay in constitution of its elected body and in securing a legal opinion.
4. The commercial Court has rejected the appellant's application for condonation of delay and the suit on merits on separate grounds. The commercial Court has reasoned as follows:
" Even, the reasons assigned for condonation of delay is not sufficient. Further, the scope of maintainability of arbitral award is limited to the proposition of law as enunciated under Section 34 of the Arbitration and NC: 2023:KHC-K:1293-DB Conciliation Act. The grounds urged in the present case does not speak about those aspects while challenging the award. The award was passed on 09.03.2017 and the suit is filed on 07.08.2019. Hence, there is inordinate delay in filing the suit and it is not explained properly. The mandatory provisions of Section 34 (3) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act clearly bars the suit. The appellant in his affidavit has not stated the date on which he has made an application for obtaining certified copy of the award and the date on which he received the award or when the award was served to him by the Arbitrator himself. In the absence of such averments, it cannot be said that suit was filed in time. Therefore, in view of the discussion made above, this Court comes to the conclusion that I.A.No.I filed under Section 5 of the Limitation Act is liable to be dismissed and consequently, the suit filed under Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 is also liable to be dismissed as not maintainable."
As regards the other ground, the commercial Court has opined that because a pre-deposit of 75% of the award amount is not deposited, the suit under Section 34 must also be rejected.
NC: 2023:KHC-K:1293-DB
5. Sri Ameet Kumar Deshpande, the learned Senior Counsel for the appellant, and Sri Manvendra Reddy, the learned counsel for the first respondent, are heard on the application filed for condonation of delay of 190 days in filing the present application under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act in the light of the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Government of Maharashtra (Water Resources Department) vs. Borse Brothers Engineers and Contractors Private Limited reported in (2021) 6 SCC 460. They do not dispute that with this decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court it is settled that an application for condonation of delay in filing an application under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act will have to be considered in the light of the provisions of Section 13 (1A) of the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 and Section 5 of the Limitation Act, that the delay could be condoned provided it is shown that the applicant has acted bona fide without negligence, and in the discretion of the Court if no right has accrued to the other party during the delay period.
NC: 2023:KHC-K:1293-DB
6. However, Sri Ameet Kumar Deshpande submits that this Court must condone the delay of 190 days on the following grounds, which includes his submissions on merits of the application under Section 37 of the Act:
6.1 The commercial Court has dismissed the application on the ground of maintainability holding that the appellant has failed to deposit 75% of the amount payable in terms of the award. There is nothing in law which contemplates this requirement as a pre-deposit.
The commercial Court has failed to consider that the appellant, upon service of notice of the respondent's suit under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act, has filed a detailed objections as against the award. The present suit in AS 6/2019, along with an application for condonation of delay, is filed only to ensure that there is no formal defect.
6.2 If the date for the purposes of condonation of delay is reckoned in the aforesaid circumstances, it would relate back to the date of filing statement of objections, and in the circumstances explained, sufficient cause is NC: 2023:KHC-K:1293-DB shown for condonation of delay. The commercial Court has failed to consider these circumstances. Earlier, a party to the arbitral proceedings, because of certain judicial pronouncements, could not have filed a counter claim, but with the recent amendment to the Arbitration Act, it is open to the party to the proceedings to file a counter claim. In any event, if a counter claim could be filed in the arbitral proceedings, it would also be permissible to file cross objections in an application under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act.
6.3 The appellant's position that the limitation for the purpose of computation of delay must be reckoned from the date on which the statement of objections are filed in AS No.3/2017 would be within time should have been examined in the afore circumstances, and hence it was permissible for the commercial Court to consider the question of delay as canvassed by the appellant. The failure has resulted in injustice.
NC: 2023:KHC-K:1293-DB 6.4 The limitation for filing an application under Section 34 will have to be reckoned from the date a copy of the signed award is made over by the Arbitrator and received by the party. This would follow from the conjoint reading of the provisions of Section 31(5) and Sections 34(3) of the Arbitration Act. If an enquiry is held on the merits of the application filed for condonation of delay before the commercial Court, the appellant would have an opportunity to show that the appellant was not delivered with a copy of the award duly signed as contemplated under Section 31(5) of the Arbitration Act. The circumstances established in such enquiry could be considered to assess sufficient cause necessary for condonation of delay beyond 90 days.
6.5 The appellant is a statutory committee and hence the question of condonation of delay not just in the present proceedings but also in the proceedings under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act must necessarily be considered in the light of all the circumstances including the fact that the appellant is a statutory committee.
- 10 -
NC: 2023:KHC-K:1293-DB
7. Sri Manvendra Reddy refutes these submissions contending that the appellant has not set forth any of these circumstances in the affidavit accompanying the application filed before the commercial Court. The appellant has only stated that the delay is because of the delay in constitution of the elected body, repeated transfers of the officials and the time taken to secure a legal opinion. The appellant has filed detailed statement of objections upon receipt of service of the respondent's application under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act, and after a period of over 200 days thereafter the application is filed along with an application for condonation of delay. The Courts can condone delay of only 30 days or after the 90 days, and when it is undisputed that the delay is over 200 days, it would not be open even for the commercial Courts to condone the delay and the commercial Court has rightly rejected.
8. Sri Manvendra Reddy emphasizes that the jurisdiction to condone the delay must be exercised only in
- 11 -
NC: 2023:KHC-K:1293-DB exceptional circumstances where bona fides are demonstrated. Here, the appellant did not file an application for a period of over 200 days despite service of notice in the application filed by the appellant, and even the present application is belated by 190 days. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Government of Maharashtra (Water Resources Department) vs. Borse Brothers Engineers and Contractors Private Limited supra, has refused to condone the delay of 131 days because reasons were not sufficiently explained. As such, this Court must reject the application and consequentially the appeal.
9. These rival submissions are considered to decide on the following question:
Whether the appellant has shown sufficient cause and bona fides for exercising the discretion to condone the delay of 190 days and if in this Court's opinion the appellant has failed to establish bona fides or shown sufficient cause, what order should follow.
10. The exposition of law by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Government of Maharashtra (Water Resources
- 12 -
NC: 2023:KHC-K:1293-DB Department) vs. Borse Brothers Engineers and Contractors Private Limited supra on the condonation of delay even when the appeal is filed by the Government under Section 13(1A) of the Commercial Act [in para 63 of the decision] is as follows:
"Given the aforesaid and the object of speedy disposal sought to be achieved both under the Arbitration Act and the Commercial Courts Act, for appeals filed under section 37 of the Arbitration Act that are governed by Articles 116 and 117 of the Limitation Act or section 13(1A) of the Commercial Courts Act, a delay beyond 90 days, 30 days or 60 days, respectively, is to be condoned by way of exception and not by way of rule. In a fit case in which a party has otherwise acted bona fide and not in a negligent manner, a short delay beyond such period can, in the discretion of the court, be condoned, always bearing in mind that the other side of the picture is that the opposite party may have acquired both in equity and justice, what may now be lost by the first party's inaction, negligence or laches.
- 13 -
NC: 2023:KHC-K:1293-DB The merits of the appellant's application for condonation in presenting this appeal, as also the application before the commercial Court, must be examined in the bona fides, or the lack of bona fides, that comes through the circumstances of the case because, with the exposition as aforesaid, it cannot be disputed that the delay, either before this Court or the commercial Court, could be condoned only in exceptional circumstances and where bona fides are established.
11. The appellant's application before the commercial Court is silent on the number of delayed days, but it is admitted before this Court that the delay in filing such application is more than two years from the date of filing of statement of objections in the application by the respondent in AS No.3/2017 as against the same award. This puts the delay in filing the application before the commercial Court beyond the period that could be ordinarily condoned. As is obvious from the submissions before this Court, an effort is made to contend that the delay must be reckoned not from the date on which the
- 14 -
NC: 2023:KHC-K:1293-DB application is presented but the day on which the detailed objections are filed, and in any event, there must be an enquiry on the request for condonation of delay because the Arbitrator did not deliver a signed award to the respondent as contemplated under Section 31(5) of the Arbitration Act. The application for condonation of delay before the commercial Court does not advert to these circumstances and therefore, rather than comment on whether such exercise must be undertaken in the circumstances of this case, this Court must opine that this argument appears to be a complete afterthought.
12. The onus, as reiterated by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, is to establish bona fides for exercise of discretion, and this exercise must be only in exceptional circumstance. If the appellant were to be bona fide in setting up these circumstances, it should have in the least referred to the relevant circumstances and sought for indulgence. The absence thereof, constrains this Court to opine that these circumstances are put forth for the first time before this Court as an afterthought and belies the
- 15 -
NC: 2023:KHC-K:1293-DB bona fides in filing the present appeal as well belatedly. The suit before the commercial Court is delayed by over 200 days and this appeal by over 190 days, the delay cannot be condoned just because the appellant is a public body, as emphasized by the decision in Government of Maharashtra (Water Resources Department) vs. Borse Brothers Engineers and Contractors Private Limited supra in para No.59.
13. In the aforesaid circumstances, this Court is of the view that the commercial Court's conclusion that the appellant's application for condonation of delay in the absence of the material particulars, a finding which cannot be factually found fault with, is just and proper and does not call for any interference. Consequentially, i.e., because bona fides are not established, the questions framed for consideration are answered in favour of the respondent, rejecting not just the application for condonation of delay but also the appeal.
- 16 -
NC: 2023:KHC-K:1293-DB
14. At this stage, Sri Ameet Kumar Deshpande submits that an undertaking is given on behalf of the respondent in the present proceedings that though execution proceedings are initiated for enforcement of the award, no precipitative action would be sought for in such execution proceeding, and with the present disposal of the appeal, this Court may grant certain sufficient reasonable time for the appellant to pursue its further remedy. This submission must be recorded only to answer that this request could be made in the execution proceedings to be considered strictly in accordance with law.
In view of disposal of the appeal, pending interlocutory applications, if any, stand disposed of.
Sd/-
JUDGE Sd/-
JUDGE SWK