Take notes as you read a judgment using our Virtual Legal Assistant and get email alerts whenever a new judgment matches your query (Query Alert Service). Try out our Premium Member Services -- Sign up today and get free trial for one month.
Gujarat High Court
Oil And Natural Gas Corporation Ltd vs M/S Deep Industries Ltd on 25 July, 2018
Bench: M.R. Shah, A.Y. Kogje
C/SCA/9305/2018                                                        CAV JUDGMENT



    IN THE HIGH COURT OF GUJARAT AT AHMEDABAD
                  R/SPECIAL CIVIL APPLICATION NO.  9305 of 2018

 
FOR APPROVAL AND SIGNATURE: 
 
HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE M.R. SHAH                                 Sd/­
and
HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE A.Y. KOGJE                                Sd/­
=============================================
1      Whether Reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see            No
       the judgment ?

2      To be referred to the Reporter or not ?                            No

3      Whether their Lordships wish to see the fair copy of the           No
       judgment ?

4      Whether this case involves a substantial question of law as        No
       to the interpretation of the Constitution of India or any 
       order made thereunder ?

=============================================
            OIL AND NATURAL GAS CORPORATION LTD
                            Versus
                   M/S DEEP INDUSTRIES LTD
=========================================
====Appearance:
MR KAMAL TRIVEDI, SENIOR ADVOCATE with MR KUNAN B NAIK(3210), MR VIVAN SHAH, 
MR UTSAV PARIKH, MS MONISHA CHAHAL, ADVOCATES for the PETITIONER(s) No. 1,2
MR   SN   SOPARKAR,   SENIOR   ADVOCATE   with   MR   VIMAL   PATEL   MR 
HARSHRAJSINH   S   VAGHELA(8752)   ADVOCATES   for   the   RESPONDENT(s) 
No. 1
=============================================
    CORAM: HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE M.R. SHAH
           and
           HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE A.Y. KOGJE
 
                                Date : 25/07/2018
 
                               CAV JUDGMENT
  (PER : HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE M.R. SHAH) RULE. Shri Harshrajsinh Vaghela, learned Advocate waives service  of notice of Rule on behalf of the respondent. 
[1.0] By way of this petition under Article 226/227 of the Constitution  of India, the petitioner - Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (hereinafter  referred   to   as   "Corporation")   has   prayed   for   an   appropriate   writ,  direction and order to quash and set aside the impugned order dated  31.05.2018 passed by the learned Commercial Court, City Civil Court,  Ahmedabad   in   Civil   Misc.   Application   No.37/2018   as   well   as   the  impugned   order   dated   09.05.2018   passed   by   the   learned   Arbitral  Tribunal  below application  Exh.17  of  the  Arbitration  and Conciliation  Act, 1996 (hereinafter referred to as "Arbitration Act"). 
[2.0] The facts leading to the present Special Civil Application in nut­ shell and the chronology of events and dates are as under: 
[2.1] That the respondent, being successful bidder of the Tender Inquiry  No.D16BC16023 was awarded the contract on 10.02.2017 for hiring the  services for one Mobile Air Compressor on the offered period of 5 years  at Ahmedabad Asset of the petitioner Corporation and according to him  the contract was executed between the petitioner Corporation and the  respondent  on  07.04.2017.  That the  contract agreement  provided  the  termination clause viz. Clause No.18 which read as under: 
"18. TERMINATION 18.1 Termination on expiry of the CONTRACT This   Agreement   shall   be   deemed   to   have   been  automatically   terminated   on   the   expiry   of   the  CONTRACT period unless the ONGC has exercised its  option to extend this CONTRACT in accordance with  the provisions, if any, of this CONTRACT. 
18.2 Termination on account of force majeure  Either   party   shall   have   the   right   to   terminate   this  CONTRACT on account of Force Majeure, as set forth  in clause 23. 
18.3 Termination on account of insolvency In the event the CONTRACTOR or its collaborator at  any time during the term of this Agreement becomes  insolvent or makes a voluntary assignment of its assets  for   the   benefit   of   creditors   or   is   adjudged   bankrupt,  then the ONGC shall, by a notice in Writing have the  right   to   terminate   the   CONTRACT   and   all   the  CONTRACTOR's rights and privileges hereunder, shall  stand terminated forthwith.
18.4 Termination for unsatisfactory performance If   the   ONGC   considers   that   the   performance   of   the  CONTRACTOR   is   unsatisfactory   or,   not   upto   the  expected   standard,   the   ONGC   shall   notify   the  CONTRACTOR   in   writing   and   specify   in   detail   the  cause of such dissatisfaction. The ONGC shall have the  option to terminate this Agreement by giving 30 days  notice   in   writing   to   the   CONTRACTOR,   if,  CONTRACTOR In view of the above, present Second  Appeal fails and the same deserves to be dismissed and  is, accordingly, dismissed.   No costs.   to comply with  the   requisitions   contained   in   the   said   written   notice  issued by the ONGC.
18.5 Termination for delay in mobilisation Successful   bidder   shall   be   required   to   mobilise  complete   equipment   alongwith   crew   (only  manpower   /   crew   in   case   of   Operation   and  Maintenance Contracts) for commencement of services  at   the   specified   site   &   completion   thereof   within   a  maximum number of 180 days from the date of NOA.  If   the   CONTRACTOR   (successful   bidder)   fails   to  mobilise as above, ONGC shall have, without prejudice  to   any   other   clause   of   the   CONTRACT,   the   right   to  terminate the contract.
18.6 Consequences of termination In   all   cases   of   termination   herein   set   forth,   the  obligation of the ONGC to pay shall be limited to the  period upto the date of termination. Notwithstanding  the   termination   of   this   Agreement,   the   parties   shall  continue   to   be   bound   by   the   provision   of   this  Agreement   that   reasonably   require   some   action   or  forbearance after such termination.
  In   case   of   termination   of   Contract   herein   set  forth, except under 18.1 and 18.2, and / or annulment  of the contract due to non­submission of Performance  Security (as  per  clause  36 of  Annexure­1), following  actions shall be taken against the Contractor. 
i. ONGC   shall   conduct   an   inquiry   against   the  Contractor   and   consequent   to   the   conclusion   of   the  inquiry, if it is found that the fault is on the part of the  Contractor,   then   they   shall   be   put   on   holiday   (i.e.  neither   any   tender   enquiry   will   be   issued   to   such   a  Contractor   by   ONGC   against   any   type   of   tender   nor  their   offer   will   be   considered   by   ONGC   against   any  ongoing tender(s) where contract between ONGC and  that particular Contractor (as a bidder) has not been  concluded) for a period of two years from the date the  order for putting the Contractor on holiday is issued.  However, the action taken by ONGC for putting that  Contractor   on   holiday   shall   not   have   any   effect   on  other ongoing contract(s), if any, with that Contractor  which shall continue till expiry of their term(s).
ii. Pending  completion  of  the  enquiry  process  for  putting the Contractor on holiday, ONGC shall neither  issue any tender enquiry to the defaulting Contractor  nor shall consider their offer in any ongoing tender."
[2.2] That   as   per   Clause   2   of   the   Notification   of   award   /   contract  agreement the respondent was required to supply the new Mobile Air  Compressor   and   as   per   Clause   3,   the   respondent   Corporation   was  supposed to mobilize compressor, manpower etc. within 180 days from  the date of issue of the NOA and the said mobilization was supposed to  be offered by 19.08.2017. That vide communication dated 09.08.2017,  the respondent Company sought extension of mobilization period upto  23.08.2017   and   the   same   was   extended   upto   23.08.2017,   subject   to  certain conditions. It appears that the respondent Company addressed  one another letter to the Corporation for extension of mobilization to  07.09.2017   which   also   came   to   be   granted   vide   its   letter   dated  01.09.2017. That vide communication dated 31.08.2017 the respondent  Company addressed a letter  to the  Corporation  supplying  information  regarding readiness of Mobile Air Compressor for deployment. It is the  case   on   behalf   of   the   petitioner   Corporation   that   the   Corporation  appointed a Committee for inspection of hard Mobile Air Compressor as  provided   in   the   contract   Agreement   on   05.09.2017.   According   to   the  petitioner, the said Committee for inspection, inspected the Mobile Air  Compressor offered by the respondent Company and prepared its report  on 07.09.2017, whereby it was found that the Mobile Air Compressor  offered by the respondent Company is not new one, as claimed by the  respondent   Company.   Therefore,   according   to   the   petitioner  Corporation,   the   Mobile   Air   Compressor   offered   by   the   respondent  Company was not as per the bid submitted by the respondent Company  and   as   per   the   contract   entered   into   by   it.   Therefore,   the   petitioner  Corporation   addressed   a   communication   dated   12.09.2017   to   the  respondent   Company,   sending   therewith   a   detailed   report   of   the  Committee   for   inspection  inter   alia  indicating   that   the   equipments   in  question were damaged, old and in poor condition. That the respondent  Company   addressed   a   communication   dated   19.09.2017   to   the  Corporation, indicating Corporation that they are sending the equipment  to   the   manufacturers   at   Sonepat   to   resolve   the   issues   and   has   also  requested the Corporation to sent its representatives to inspect the MAC  at   Sonepat.   According   to   the   petitioner   Corporation,   the   respondent  Company   offered   re­inspection   after   removing   the   MAC.   That   the  Corporation   addressed   a   communication   dated   25.09.2017   to   the  respondent   Company   stating   that   the   inspection   carried   out   on  06.09.2017 is final and no re­inspection is required. That in view of the  failure on the part of the respondent Company to mobilise and deploy  the required equipments even during the extended mobilization period,  vide communication dated 11.10.2017, the Corporation terminated the  contract   by   taking   into   consideration   contained   in   Clause   18.5.  According   to   the   petitioner   Corporation   the   contract   was   terminated  taking   into   consideration   Clause   19(b)   of   the   General   Contract  Conditions   of   the   contract   agreement   also.   That   on   12.10.2017,   the  Corporation   suspended   the   respondent   Company's   Vendor   Code,  pending   completion   of   the   inquiry   for   blacklisting.   That   vide  communication   dated   13.10.2017   the   respondent   Company   wrote   a  letter to the Corporation requesting  inter alia to release the respondent  Company's   Vendor   Code   was   that   it   can   participate   in   various  forthcoming (new) tender activities. That on 18.10.2017 the Corporation  issued the show­cause notice to the respondent Company, to show­cause  as to why the Corporation should not take action for stopping / banning  business   dealings   with   the   respondent   Company   i.e.   permanently  blacklisting the respondent Company for the period of 2 years.  
[2.3] Feeling   aggrieved   and   dissatisfied   with   the   action   of   the  Corporation to block Vendor Code allotted to the petitioner as well as  the   show­cause   notice   dated   18.10.2017   seeking   to   blacklist   the  petitioner for the period of 2 years, the respondent Company preferred  Special   Civil   Application   No.19289/2017   before   this   Court   for   the  following reliefs.
"(A) To quash and set aside the action of ONGC to  block Vendor Code allotted to the petitioner, (AA) To   set   aside   the   Show   Cause   Notice   dated  18.10.2017, seeking to black­list the petitioner for the  period of two years (added pursuant to amendment), (B) To   quash   and   set   aside   Clause   18.6(ii)   of   the  Contract, (C) Pending   the   hearing   and   final   disposal   of   the  petition,
  (i) To direct ONGC to unblock Vendor Code  allotted to the petitioner,
  (ii) To direct ONGC to allow the petitioner to  participate in various tenders of ONGC.
(CC) Pending   hearing   and   final   disposal   of   the  present   petition,   Your   Lordships   may   be   pleased   to  stay   the   Show   Cause   Notice   dated   18.10.2017   at  ANNEXURE­S."
That   the   Division   Bench   of   this   Court   issued   the   notice   to   the  petitioner   Corporation.   That   on   02.11.2017   the   respondent   Company  issued a notice invoking the arbitration to the Corporation stating, inter   alia, that the Corporation has illegally terminated the contract and that  the   respondent   Company   has   mobilized   the   required   equipments   on  31.08.2017, which is lying ideal and therefore, the dispute has arisen  between the parties which is required to be referred to arbitration under  Clause 27 of the Contract Agreement. 
[2.4] That the petitioner Corporation addressed a reminder letter to the  respondent Company on 02.11.2017 seeking its reply to the show­cause  notice dated 18.10.2017. 
[2.5] At this stage it is required to be noted that the aforesaid Special  Civil   Application   as   such   was   preferred   initially   seeking   the   relief   to  quash and set aside  the  action  of the   petitioner  Corporation  to  block  Vendor   Code  allotted   to   the  petitioner   and  thereafter  the   show­cause  notice dated 18.10.2017 was issued and therefore, on 06.11.2017 the  respondent   Company   preferred   a   Draft   Amendment   in   the   aforesaid  Special   Civil   Application   No.19289/2017   challenging   the   show­cause  notice dated 18.10.2017. 
[2.6] That on 07.11.2017 the respondent Company addressed a letter to  the petitioner Corporation with reference to the show­cause notice dated  18.10.2017. 
[2.7] That thereafter  the  petitioner  Corporation  issued another  show­ cause notice dated 25.11.2017 to the respondent Company seeking its  explanation which according to the petitioner Corporation was in lieu of  the show­cause notice dated 18.10.2017. 
[2.8] It   is   the   case   on   behalf   of   the   petitioner   that   the   respondent  Company   addressed   a   letter   dated   01.12.2017   to   the   petitioner  Corporation refusing to disclose the location of the MAC. That thereafter  the petitioner  Corporation addressed a letter dated 13.12.2017 to the  respondent Company forwarding the names of the learned Arbitrator to  be   appointed   for   the   adjudication   of   the   dispute   for   claim   of  Rs.2,19,96,769/­.   At   this   stage   it   is   required   to   be   noted   that   at   the  relevant time the dispute was with respect to termination of contract. 
[2.9] That the petitioner Corporation thereafter addressed one another  show­cause   notice   on   20.12.2017   to   the   respondent   Company   with  reference   to   the   earlier   notices   dated   18.10.2017   and   25.11.2017.  According   to   the   petitioner   Corporation,   by   the   said   notice   dated  20.10.2017, the petitioner Corporation has expressly sought explanation  from   the   respondent   Company   as   to   why   it   should   not   stop   /   ban  business   dealings   with   the   respondent   Company   for   foisting   old   and  refurbished MAC upon the petitioner Corporation which is only available  under Integrated Materials Management Manual. 
[2.10] That thereafter vide communication dated 21.12.2017, the  respondent company gave its consensus for appointment of the learned  sole Arbitrator. 
[2.11] That thereafter the respondent Company submitted its reply  to the show­cause notice on 29.12.2017. That thereafter the respondent  Company   withdrew   the   aforesaid   Special   Civil   Application  No.19289/2017   on   02.02.2018   with   a   view   to   remove   the   learned  Arbitrator for interim measures under Section 17 of the Arbitration Act. 
[2.12] That   on   02.02.2018   the   respondent   Company   filed   its  Statement   of   Claim   before   the   learned   sole   Arbitrator.   That   in   the  Statement   of   Claim   the   respondent  claimed  added   final  relief   against  notice dated 18.10.2017 (it is the case on behalf of the petitioner that  though   the   said   show­cause   notice   dated   18.10.2017   was   the   subject  matter   before   this   Court   in   Special   Civil   Application   No.19289/2017,  which   came   to   be   withdrawn   only   with   a   view   to   move   the   learned  Arbitrator for interim measures under Section 17 of the Arbitration Act  and though no liberty was reserved raising the dispute against the show­ cause   notice   dated   18.10.2017,   the   respondent   -   claimant   added   the  final relief against the notice dated 18.10.2017). 
[2.13] That   on   10.02.2018,   the   respondent   Company   filed   an  application under Section 17 of the Arbitration Act,  inter alia,  seeking  direction to the Corporation to unblock the Vendor Code No.V814297  allotted   to   it   for   participating   in   various   tender   activities.   That   on  12.02.2018, the Corporation filed its objection to the said application by  stating inter alia that the application of the respondent Company is not  incidental   as   the   blacklisting   proceedings   (putting   the   respondent  Company in holidays) are not arising under the arbitration proceedings  invoked   by   the   respondent   Company,   wherein   it   had   challenged   the  termination of the contract only. That on 12.02.2018 the Corporation  filed an application under Section 16 of the Arbitration Act challenging  the jurisdiction of the learned Arbitral Tribunal with respect to the show­ cause notice dated 18.10.2017 for blacklisting / putting the respondent  Company in holiday. 
[2.14] It   appears   that   thereafter   on   15.02.2018   the   Corporation  passed an order deciding to stop any further business dealings with the  respondent   Company   (i.e.   to   put   on   holiday).   That   thereafter   on  19.02.2018   the   respondent   Company   -   original   claimant   filed   an  amendment application for amending the Statement of Claim and also  its interim measure application filed under Section 17 of the Arbitration  Act.   That   on   10.03.2018,   the   learned   Arbitrator   passed   an   order  allowing the amendment sought by the respondent Company - original  claimant.   That   on   12.02.2018,   the   respondent   Company   -   original  claimant filed an amended Section 17 application, inter alia, seeking stay  of   the   final  order   of   blacklisting  /   putting   on   holiday  the   respondent  Company   dated   15.02.2018   of   the   Corporation.   That   by   order   dated  09.05.2018 the learned Arbitral Tribunal rejected section 16 application.  On the very day and on the basis of the findings recorded while passing  the   order   under   Section   16   application,   the   learned   Arbitral   Tribunal  allowed section 17 application and stayed the order dated 15.02.2018 as  well as the order of suspension of business dealings dated 12.10.2017. 
[2.15] Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the order passed by  the learned Arbitral Tribunal in Section 17 application, the Corporation  preferred an appeal under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act before the  learned   Commercial   Court,   Ahmedabad.   That   by   impugned   judgment  and order the learned Commercial Court, at Ahmedabad has dismissed  the said appeal of the Corporation which is the subject matter of present  petition before this Court. 
[3.0] Shri   Kamal   Trivedi,   learned   Senior   Advocate   has   appeared   on  behalf   of   the   petitioner   Corporation   and   Shri   S.N.   Soparkar,   learned  Senior Advocate has appeared on behalf of the respondent Company -  original claimant. 
[4.0] Shri Trivedi, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner  has   vehemently   submitted   that   order   passed   by   the   learned   Arbitral  Tribunal   under   Section   17   of   the   Arbitration   Act   confirmed   by   the  learned   Commercial   Court   is   wholly   without   jurisdiction   as   well   as  beyond the scope and ambit of section 17 of the Arbitration Act. 
[4.1] It   is   submitted   by   Shri   Trivedi,   learned   Counsel   appearing   on  behalf of the petitioner that infact the respondent Company invoked the  arbitration under the contract only in respect of the termination of the  contract as per Clause 27.1 of the Contract Agreement. It is submitted  that therefore the dispute which was referred to the sole Arbitrator was  with respect to the termination order only. It is submitted that even at  the time when the notice invoking the arbitration was issued and served  as   per   Clause   27.1   of   the   contract,   even   there   was   no   order   dated  15.02.2018 putting the respondent Company on holidays. 
[4.2] It is submitted that Clause 27.1 of the Contract expressly provides  for reference of specific disputes at the time of invocation of arbitration  and not there after. It is submitted that therefore, the learned Tribunal  does   not   have   jurisdiction   to   decide   any   dispute   which   has   not  specifically been referred to it. It is submitted that therefore the learned  Arbitrator   cannot   by   traveling   beyond   the   reference,   entertain   any  additional claims or counter claims which are not part of the disputes  specifically referred  to  arbitration.  It is  submitted  that   in  view  of  the  negative covenant contained in Clause 27.1 of the Contract, providing  for   reference   of   only   the   specified   points   of   dispute   in   the   notice  invoking   arbitration  and   not   thereafter  it   was   impermissible   for   the  respondent   Company   to   seek   to   add   any   new   point   of   dispute   with  regard   to   putting   it   on   holidays,   after   having   issued   notice   dated  02.11.2017. It is submitted that therefore all the orders passed by the  learned Tribunal in connection with the banning proceedings are beyond  the scope of reference and without jurisdiction. 
[4.3] It is further submitted by Shri Trivedi, learned Counsel appearing  on behalf of the petitioner that even Notice dated 02.11.2017 was issued  after  receipt of  the  show­cause notice   dated 18.10.2017  and the  said  does not refer to or even whisper about the latter. It is submitted that  not only the notice dated 02.11.2017 but the subsequent letters dated  07.11.2017   and   29.12.2017   also   clearly   stated   that   the   respondent  Company has invoked arbitration only in respect of termination of the  contract and so far as the dispute with regard to holidaying the same,  had   been   agitated   before   the   High   Court.   It   is   submitted   that   it   is   a  settled principle of law that special Tribunals like Arbitral Tribunals get  jurisdiction to proceed with the case only from the reference made to  them.   It   is   submitted   that   thus,   it   is   not   permissible   for   such  Tribunals/authorities to travel beyond the terms of reference and powers  cannot be exercised by the Tribunal so as to enlarge materially the scope  of the reference itself. It is submitted that the learned Arbitral Tribunal  cannot widen jurisdiction by deciding a question not referred to it by the  parties or cannot assume jurisdiction over a question which has not been  referred to it.  In support of his above submissions, Shri Trivedi, learned  Counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner has heavily relied upon the  following decisions. 
1. State of U.P. vs. Ram Nath International Construction (P)  Ltd. 
  AIR 1996 SC 782 - rel. para 10
2. Rohtash vs. State of Haryana   2012 (12) SCC 589 
3. Sheodutt vs. Pandit Vishnudutta   AIR 1955 Nag. 116  [4.4] It is further submitted by Shri Trivedi, learned Counsel appearing  on behalf of the petitioner that even considering the Order XXIII  Rule  1(3) & 1(4) of Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, the respondent Company  having unconditionally withdrawn the writ petition without leave of the  Court to institute fresh claim in respect of the show cause proceedings  for   putting   the   respondent   Company   on   holiday,   the   respondent  Company is precluded from making claim before the Arbitral tribunal on  the same subject matter. It is submitted that the record reveals that the  respondent Company has challenged the show cause proceedings  and  more particularly show­cause notice dated 18.10.2017 before this Court  by filing the writ petition being Special Civil Application No.19289/2017  with a prayer to set aside show­cause notice dated 18.10.2017 and has  pursued the remedy before the High Court only. It is submitted that the  said   petition   was   fully   and   finally   heard   by   the   High   Court   and   was  pending   for   the   judgment   when   the   respondent   company   sought   to  withdraw   the   said   petition.   It   is   further   submitted   that   order   dated  02.02.2018 passed by the High Court has reproduced the liberty sought  for   by   the   respondent   Company   while   withdrawing   the   writ   petition,  which reads that 'the petition may be permitted to be withdrawn with a  view to take out appropriate  application  before the  Ld. Arbitrator  for  interim measures'. It is submitted that thus, no liberty was sought to add  final claim before the learned Arbitrator. It is submitted that it is curious  to note that on the very day i.e. 02.02.2018 the respondent Company  has submitted its  Statement of Claim with a final prayer to set aside  show­cause   notice   dated   18.10.2018.   It   is   further   submitted   that  unconditionally   withdrawing   the   writ   petition   before   the   High   Court  amounts to abandonment of claim and the respondent Company thus  has been precluded from instituting any fresh proceedings in respect of  show­cause proceedings and show­cause notice dated 18.10.2017. 
[4.5] It is further submitted by Shri Trivedi, learned Counsel appearing  on behalf of the petitioner that the principle underlining provisions of  Order XXIII Rule 1(3) & 1(4) of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 is  considered as a principle of public policy to preclude the petitioner from  re­agitating the same cause of action and relief. It is submitted that thus  unless the Court grants express permission to institute a fresh claim on  the same subject matter it is not permissible for a litigant to re­open and  re­agitate   the   concluded   and   unconditionally   withdrawn   claim   and  relief.   In   support   of   his   above   his   submission,   Shri   Trivedi,   learned  Counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner has relied on the following  decisions.
1. 1999 (1) SCC 81 - rel. paras 11 to 15   Upadhyay & Co. vs. State of U.P. and others  
2. 2018 (11) SCC 104 - rel. paras 13 and 14   H.N. Jagannath and Others vs. State of Karnataka and Ors. 
3. 2012 (2) CHN 452 - rel. paras 11 and 12   S.S.K. Construction vs. Rupa Ghosh [4.6] It is further submitted that even the final order dated 15.02.2018  is a new and fresh cause of action and therefore also, with respect to the  order putting the respondent Company on holidays which is a new and  fresh cause of action, the learned Arbitral Tribunal ought not to have  assumed the jurisdiction  with respect to such new and fresh cause of  action. It is submitted that order dated 15.02.2018 was not even born  either on the date when the notice invoking arbitration was issued or on  the date of filing of Statement of Claim. It is submitted that thus, it could  not   be   assailed   without   first   raising   the   dispute   in   accordance   with  Clause 27 of the contract. It is submitted that the order finally deciding  the   issue   of   holiday   is   a   new   and   fresh   cause   of   action   involving  completely   different   and   distinct   scope   of   dispute,   which   has   been  passed under the Integrated Materials Management Manual. 
[4.7] It is further submitted that the order of holiday has been passed  after   affording   an   opportunity   of   hearing   to   the   respondent   company  pursuant to three show­cause notices dated 18.10.2017, 25.11.2017 &  20.12.2017, which called upon the respondent Company to answer the  allegation   of   foisting   old   MAC   unit   based   on   the   false   invoices.   It   is  submitted that thus, order dated 15.02.2018 has been passed in exercise  of administrative/executive power of the petitioner Corporation and not  only under Clause 18.6 of the contract. It is submitted that power under  Clause 18.6 of the contract is restricted and could only be exercised in  cases of delayed mobilization, unsatisfactory performance or insolvency,  whereas powers under the Manual are larger. It is submitted that effect  of holidaying under the contract is also restricted to the entity of the  contractor,   whereas   under   the   Manual   the   petitioner   corporation   has  larger power to put on holiday all other sister concerns. It is submitted  that   thus,   power   to   put   on   holiday   sister   concerns   without   privity   of  contract itself shows that such power is not contractual but an inherent  administrative/executive   power.   In   support   of   his   above   submissions,  Shri Trivedi, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner has  heavily relied upon the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the  case of Kulja Industries Limited vs. Chief General Manager, Western  Telecom Project Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited and Ors. reported in  (2014) 14 SCC 731  as well as the decision of the Delhi High Court in  the case of Surinder Pal Singh vs. HPCL & Anr. reported in 2006 (92)  DRJ 537.  
[4.8] Shri Trivedi, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner  has further submitted that even otherwise the relief which is granted by  the   learned   Arbitrator   in   an   application   under   Section   17   of   the  Arbitration Act is not sustainable under the law. 
It   is   submitted   by   Shri   Trivedi,   learned   Counsel   appearing   on  behalf of the petitioner that the learned Arbitral Tribunal has granted  the relief by way of interim measures in an application under Section 17  of the Arbitration Act which as such is a final relief that may be granted.  It is submitted that the interim injunction / interim relief is always in aid  and as an auxillary to the final relief that may be granted. It is submitted  that the respondent Company neither could have prayed for nor the Ld.  Tribunal   could   have   granted   the   interim   relief   granting   temporary  injunction against order dated 15.02.2018 based on new and fresh cause  of action inasmuch as, the final relief to set aside the action is itself not  available   to   the   respondent   Company   to   pray   for   in   the   arbitral  proceedings. It is submitted that the respondent Company, since could  not pray for setting aside/quashing of the proceedings for putting the  respondent company on holiday or order dated 15.02.2018, it was not  entitled   to   grant   of   any   interim   relief   in   terms   thereof.   It   is   further  submitted that if the final relief cannot be granted in terms as prayed  for, temporary relief in same terms could not be granted because right to  obtain an interlocutory injunction is not a cause of action and it cannot  stand on its own. It is submitted that the injunction sought in the action  must be part of the substantive relief to which the plaintiffs' cause of  action entitles him. It is submitted that the learned Tribunal has granted  the   interim   relief   staying   the   holiday   awarded   to   the   respondent  Company without jurisdiction to grant final relief in terms thereof. In  support   of   his   above   submissions,   Shri   Trivedi,   learned   Counsel  appearing   on   behalf   of   the   petitioner   has   heavily   relied   upon   the  decision   of   the   Hon'ble   Supreme   Court   in   the   case   of  Cotton  Corporation of India Limited vs. United Industrial Bank Limited and  Others reported in AIR 1983 SC 1272 as well as in the case of Adhunik  Steels Ltd. vs. Orissa Manganese and Minerals Pvt. Ltd.  reported in  AIR 2007 SC 2563.
[4.9] It is further submitted by Shri Trivedi, learned Counsel appearing  on behalf of the petitioner that the respondent Company could not have  prayed for the relief which is beyond the subject matter of the reference  and, the jurisdiction of the learned Tribunal could not extend beyond the  said subject matter. It is submitted that after amendment of Section 17 it  stands in pari materia as section 9 of the Arbitration Act. It is submitted  that the Hon'ble Apex Court while interpreting the provisions of Section  9   has   held   that   the   said   provisions   would   be   restricted   to   the  preservation   of   the   subject   matter   of   arbitration   and  it  would   not  be  correct to say that the power under section 9 of the Arbitration Act is  totally independent of the well known principles governing the grant of  an interim injunction. It is submitted that thus, even under section 17,  the   learned   Tribunal   could   not   have   transgressed   its   jurisdiction   and  granted   relief   which   otherwise   is   beyond   the   subject   matter   of   the  arbitral proceedings when such powers are not exercised by the Courts  to   grant   interim   relief   beyond   the   subject   matter   of   the   proceedings  before it. It is submitted that the learned Tribunal therefore could not  have granted interim injunction compelling the petitioner Corporation to  enter into the contract with the respondent Company. In support of his  above submissions, Shri Trivedi, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of  the   petitioner   has   heavily   relied   upon   the   decision   of   the   Hon'ble  Supreme Court in the case of Adhunik Steels Ltd. (Supra) as well as in  the case of  MD, Army Welfare Housing Organisation vs. Sumangal  Services (P) Ltd. reported in (2004)9 SCC 619 as well as the decision  of   the   Calcutta   High   Court   in   the   case   of  West   Bengal   Surface  Transport   Corporation   Ltd.   vs.   Howrah   East   West   Mini   Bus  Association reported in AIR 2011 Calcutta 50. 
[4.10] It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Trivedi,   learned   Counsel  appearing   on  behalf   of  the  petitioner   that  as   such  there   is  no  bar   to  blacklisting   proceedings   during   the   pendency   of   the   Arbitral  proceedings. It is submitted that as such there are divergent views on  whether   during   the   pendency   of   the   arbitral   proceedings,   blacklisting  proceedings can be initiated or not? It is submitted that, that apart, in  the present case the subsequent order putting the respondent Company  on   holidays   cannot   be   said   to   be   consequential   to   the   order   of  termination of the contract and it was altogether an independent cause  of action under the Integrated Material Management Manual and not at  all   connected   with   the   termination   order.   It   is   submitted   that   if   the  Corporation  would have  invoked  the  powers under  Clause  18 in  that  case the order of blacklisting / putting on holidays would be restricted to  the Company only and not against the Directors etc.  [4.11]   It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Trivedi,   learned   Counsel  appearing on behalf of the petitioner that as can be seen from various  show­cause notices issued from time to time the show­cause notice was  not   based   on   the   termination   of   the   contract,   but   was   issued   on   the  allegation of cheating and not supplying the fresh machinery etc., which  cannot be the subject matter of the proceedings under Clause 18 of the  contract.   It   is   submitted   that   therefore   the   learned   Arbitral   Tribunal  ought   not   to   have   stayed   the   order   dated   15.02.2018   in   exercise   of  powers under Section 17 of the Arbitration Act. 
[4.12]   It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Trivedi,   learned   Counsel  appearing on behalf of the petitioner that even the learned Commercial  Court in the impugned order has also specifically noted that there were  divergent   views   of   the   different   High   Courts   on   whether   during   the  pendency   of   the   arbitral   proceedings   there   can   be   blacklisting  proceedings or not?
[4.13]   It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Trivedi,   learned   Counsel  appearing on behalf of the petitioner that in the facts and circumstances  of   the   case   on   hand,   the   views   expressed   by   the   Delhi   High   Court,  Punjab & Haryana High Court and Jharkhand High Court in  cases  of  IOCL v. SPS Engineering, Prakash Atlanta JV v. NHAI, NBCC v. NDMC,  Mahavir   Transmission   v.   Punjab   State   Transmission   Corp.   Ltd.   and  Nagarjuna v. State of Jharkhand shall not be applicable. It is submitted  that in the aforesaid cases there was identity in the arbitral proceedings  as well as blacklisting proceedings. It is submitted that in those cases the  orders have been passed either without issuance of hte notice or without  assigning the proper reasons at the fag end of the arbitral proceedings. It  is   submitted  that  thus  the   aforesaid  High   Courts   have   expressed   that  such hasty decisions ought not to have been taken by the Authorities. 
[4.14]   It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Trivedi,   learned   Counsel  appearing on behalf of the petitioner  that on the other hand, various  High   Courts   have   expressed   the   view   that   mere   initiation   of   arbitral  proceedings   would   not   act   as   an   embargo   or   absolute   prohibition   to  proceed further with the blacklisting proceedings less it would result into  a situation where no authority would be in a position to conduct black  listing proceedings inasmuch as the Arbitral Proceedings would be used  as a tool to thwart blacklisting proceedings. It is submitted that in the  present   case   infact   show­cause   notice   18.10.2017   has   preceded  invocation   of   arbitral   proceedings   despite   which   the   respondent  Company has chosen not to include dispute with regard to show­cause  notice   in   its   reference   to   arbitration.   It   is   submitted   that   the   learned  Commercial  Court in  its  order  dated 31.05.2018  has  also  found that,  initiation   of   arbitration   proceedings   would   not   prohibit   conduct   of  blacklisting proceedings as a matter of rule in all cases. In support of his  above submissions, Shri Trivedi, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of  the petitioner has relied on the following decisions. 
1. Haldia Bulk Terminals Private Limited vs. Board of Trustees  for the Port of Kolkata   2012 SCC Online Cal 12921 - rel. pages 5 and 6
2. Prabhatam   Advertisement   Pvt.   Ltd.   vs.   Municipal   Corporation of Delhi (South Zone) New Delhi   2015 SCC Online Del. 14501 - rel. pages 4 and 5
3. M/s. Svogl Oil Gas & Energy Ltd. vs. Indian Oil Corporation  Ltd. 
  2016 SCC Online Del 3296 - rel. para 16
4. Sarku Engineering Services SDN BHD vs. Union of India,   Through   the   Secretary,   Ministry   of   Petroleum   &   Natural   Gas, Shastri Bhavan, New Delhi   2016 SCC Online Bom 5233 - rel. paras 26 & 27 [4.15]   It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Trivedi,   learned   Counsel  appearing   on   behalf   of   the   petitioner   that   even   otherwise   the   order  passed by the learned Tribunal under Section 17 of the Arbitration Act  failed   to   satisfy   the   requirement   of  prima   facie  case,   balance   of  convenience and irretrievable injury / irreparable loss. It is submitted  that   the   learned  Tribunal   as   well   the   learned   Commercial   Court   has  committed   patent   error   on   the   face   of   the   record   in   holding   that  proceedings   of   putting   the   respondent   Company   on   holiday   is   a  consequence of termination  and thus  the  respondent Company would  not   be   in   a   position   to   recover   the   damages   caused   to   it   even   if   it  succeeds in its challenge to the holiday proceedings. It is submitted that  firstly, holiday proceedings are not the consequence of termination of  contract inasmuch as for an example if the respondent Company would  have brought genuinely new MAC unit during the extended period after  supplying old refurbished MAC unit at the first instance, the petitioner  Corporation   could   still   initiate   holiday   proceedings   but   it   would   not  result into termination of contract as the mobilization stands completed  upon   bringing   the   genuinely   new   MAC   unit.   It   is   submitted   that  similarly,   in   a   given   case   where   due   to   bona­fide   reasons   if   the  contractor is unable to mobilize the MAC unit within the agreed time,  contract   stands   terminated   but   the   petitioner   Corporation   may   not  initiate   holiday   proceedings.   It   is   submitted   that   thus,   it   cannot   be  concluded that holiday is a consequential action to termination. 
[4.16] It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Trivedi,   learned   Counsel  appearing on behalf of the petitioner that apart from this, the learned  Tribunal as well as the learned Commercial Court has committed gross  errors in holding that since the invoices reflect the year of manufacture  as 2017 it is established that the MAC unit is new. It is submitted that  the   learned   Tribunal   as   well   as   the   learned   Commercial   Court   has  committed errors on the face of the record in ignoring the inspection  report dated 07.09.2017 of the petitioner Corporation which clearly held  that   the   MAC   unit   is   an   old   and   repainted   one   although   its   relevant  documents say that it is new. It is submitted that the certificates and the  inspection reports submitted by the respondent Company have opined  only on the basis of the documents without verification of the physical  condition of the MAC unit. It is submitted that it is the precise case of  the petitioner Corporation that the respondent Company has submitted  false   documents   to   show   that   MAC   unit   is   new   when   the   physical  condition upon physical site inspection revealed that it is old. 
[4.17] It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Trivedi,   learned   Counsel  appearing on behalf of the petitioner that the learned Tribunal and the  learned   Commercial   Court  have   erred  in   holding   that   the   respondent  Company is likely to suffer irretrievable damage as it is likely to lose  business opportunities during the period of holiday. It is submitted that  such   conclusions   and   findings   are   perverse   inasmuch   as   such   loss   of  business opportunities are clearly determinable in terms of money and  could be compensated by awarding damages as against which it would  create   irreversible   situation   for   the   petitioner   corporation   if   the  respondent   company   is   allowed   to   do   business   with   the   petitioner  corporation   inasmuch   as   once   the   contract   is   performed   it   cannot   be  reversed   such   irreversible   situation   would   compel   the   petitioner  corporation to enter into business with a person which is found to be  unsuitable   by   the   petitioner   corporation.   In   support   of   his   above  submissions, Shri Trivedi, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the  petitioner has relied on the decision of the Divisoin Bench of this Court  in the case of  Krishak Bharati Cooperative Limited vs. S.R. Travels  and Anr. reported in 2018 SCC Online Guj. 805 (Paras 8 and 13).
[4.18]  It is further submitted by Shri Trivedi, learned Counsel  appearing   on   behalf   of   the   petitioner   that  in   the   facts   and  circumstances   of   the   case   and   even   considering   the   provisions   of   the  Commercial   Courts   Act,   non­challenge   to   the   order   passed   by   the  learned Arbitral Tribunal in Section 16 application shall not come in the  way of the petitioner. It is submitted that still it will be open for the  petitioner   to   contend   that   the   learned   Arbitral   Tribunal   has   no  jurisdiction to entertain and/or consider the dispute with respect to the  blacklisting   to   the   extent   while   considering  prima   facie  case.   It   is  submitted that considering the provisions of the Commercial Courts Act  more particularly section 8 of the Arbitration Act, the appeal at this stage  challenging   the   order   passed   in   Section   16   application   shall   not   be  maintainable and even the dispute  with respect to jurisdiction  can be  agitated only in an appeal challenging the final award. It is submitted by  Shri Trivedi, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners that  even   in   the   impugned   order   the   learned   Commercial   Court   has   also  observed that at this state challenge to the order passed in Section 16  application shall not be maintainable. 
Making   above   submissions   it   is   requested   to   allow   the   present  petition. 
[5.0] Present petition is vehemently opposed by Shri Soparkar, learned  Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent. 
[5.1] It   is   vehemently   submitted   by   Shri   Soparkar,   learned   Counsel  appearing on behalf of the respondent that the learned Arbitrator has  jurisdiction to grant the reliefs as granted by the impugned order on an  application   under   Section   17   of   the   Arbitration   Act   which   is   rightly  confirmed by the learned Commercial Court by the impugned order. 
[5.2] It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Soparkar,   learned   Counsel  appearing on behalf of the respondent that the learned Arbitrator has by  an order dated 09.05.2018 on an application under Section 16 of the  Arbitration   Act   filed   by   the   Corporation   has   ruled   that   the   learned  Arbitrator has jurisdiction to agitate the dispute raised in the amended  statement of claim filed by the respondent. It is submitted that the order  passed by the learned Arbitrator ruling the jurisdiction under Section 16  of   the   Arbitration   Act   is   not   appealable   under   Section   37   of   the  Arbitration Act. It is submitted that in the event the learned Arbitrator  opines that he has jurisdiction in the matter, he may proceed therewith,  which order can be challenged alongwith the award in terms of section  34 of the Arbitration Act. 
In   support   of   his   above   submissions,   Shri   Soparkar,   learned  Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent has heavily relied upon  the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Pandey & Co.  Builders (P) Ltd. vs. State of Bihar & Anr.  reported in  (2007)1 SCC  467 (Paras 15 and 16). It is submitted that therefore, in view of the  settled   position   of   law,   the   Corporation   which   cannot   challenge   the  order dated 09.05.2018 under Section 16 of the Arbitration Act on the  question of jurisdiction of learned Arbitrator, cannot indirectly challenge  the said question in the present petition by challenging the order dated  09.05.2018  passed  by  the   learned  Arbitrator   under  Section   17  of   the  Arbitration   Act.   It   is   submitted   that   therefore,   the   order   dated  09.05.2018  under Section  16(5) of the Arbitration  Act is final at this  stage and cannot be challenged. It is submitted that even otherwise as  such the said order is not challenged by the Corporation. It is submitted  that therefore what is not permitted directly cannot be done indirectly. 
[5.3] It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Soparkar,   learned   Counsel  appearing   on   behalf   of   the   respondent   that   barring   excepted   items  agreed   between   the   parties,   the   learned   Arbitrator   has   full   power   to  adjudicate   and   decide   the   dispute   arising   out   of   the   contract   dated  07.04.2017. It is submitted that in the present case the dispute raised in  the arbitration proceedings are such items which are not excepted in the  contract and therefore, are not barred. 
[5.4] It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Soparkar,   learned   Counsel  appearing on behalf of the respondent that even otherwise the notice  dated 02.11.2017 invoking the arbitration clause by respondent is wide  enough to cover the disputes which are raised in the amended statement  of claim. It is submitted that from the chronology of events it can be seen  that the Corporation terminated the contract by letter dated 11.10.2017  under   Clause   18.5   of   the   contract   and   blocked   the   Vendor   Code   on  12.10.2017 under Clause 18.6(ii) without any order passed for blocking  the Vendor Code. It is submitted that subsequently the Corporation gave  show­cause notice dated 18.10.2017 to the  respondent as to why the  Corporation should not take  action  against the respondent as per the  terms and conditions of the contract to stop / ban business dealings with  the   respondent.   It   is   submitted   that   the   respondent   invoked   the  arbitration   clause   27.1   and   gave   a   notice   dated   02.11.2017   raising  dispute in respect of terminating the contract and the action / intention  of   the   Corporation   to   put   the   respondent   on   holiday   with   malafide  intention. It is submitted that paras 12, 13, 14, 21 and 22 of the notice  dated 02.11.2017 are wide enough to cover the dispute of termination  and   the   action   /   intention   to   put   the   respondent   on   holiday   by   the  Corporation. It is submitted that even in reply dated 07.11.2017 by the  respondent to the show­cause notice dated 18.10.2017 it was pointed  out that the respondent has invoked the arbitration clause and request  was made not to proceed with show cause notice.   It is submitted that  subsequently the reply dated 01.12.2017 was given by the respondent  pointing   out   that   the   respondent   has   already   invoked   the   arbitration  proceedings. It is submitted that the learned Arbitrator was appointed on  21.12.2017.   The   respondent   again   gave   a   reply   dated   21.12.2017  pointing out that the consent for appointing Arbitrator has been given by  letter dated 21.12.2017 and therefore, the Corporation may not proceed  further in the matter. It is submitted that infact, the learned Arbitrator  gave a notice dated 25.01.2018 informing the parties that the meeting  will   be   held   on   06.02.2018.   The   statement   of   claim   challenging   the  termination   letter   dated   11.10.2017   and   show­cause   notice   dated  18.10.2017 alongwith an application under Section 17 of the Arbitration  Act was filed before the learned Arbitrator. It is submitted that during  the pendency of the hearing to section 17 application, which was going  on, the  Corporation  passed office  order  dated  15.02.2018  putting  the  respondent  on  holiday.   It is  submitted  that  the  dispute  regarding  the  action / intention of the Corporation to put the respondent on holiday  was already raised in the notice dated 02.11.2017 by the respondent. It  is submitted that considering the said facts the learned Arbitrator by an  order   dated   10.03.2018   granted   amendment   to   challenge   the   office  order dated 15.02.2018 and also permitted amendment in application  under Section 16 seeking stay of the office order dated 15.02.2018. It is  submitted  that therefore, the  said  dispute  which  is  raised falls within  clause 27 of the contract and the learned Arbitrator has jurisdiction to  decide the said dispute as the notice dated 02.11.2017 is wide enough to  cover the disputes which are raised in the amended statement of claim. 
[5.5] It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Soparkar,   learned   Counsel  appearing   on   behalf   of   the   respondent   that   Clause   18.5   provides   for  termination   of   the   contract   if   the   contractor   fails   to   mobilize   the  complete equipment along with crew. It is submitted that Clause 18.6  provides for 'consequences of termination' of putting the respondent on  holiday for period of two years from the dated of the order and pending  completion of enquiry process for putting the respondent on holiday, the  Corporation shall neither issue any tender enquiry nor shall consider any  offer in the ongoing tender to the contractor. 
[5.6] It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Soparkar,   learned   Counsel  appearing   on   behalf   of   the   respondent   that   in   the   present   case   the  Corporation has terminated the contract by a letter dated 11.10.2017  under Clause 18.5 on the ground that respondent failed to mobilize the  equipment and reserved the right to take further consequential action as  provided in the contract. It is submitted that the Corporation  did not  accept which was ready for deployment by the respondent in view of the  alleged report dated 07.09.2017 which is based on visual inspection and  without   opportunity   to   the   respondent   to   rectify   /   repair   the   defect  which   otherwise   is   provided   under   3.12.2(G)   of   inspection.   It   is  submitted that in any case the respondent had deployed the new MAC. It  is submitted that the Corporation then gave a show­cause notice dated  18.10.2017 to the respondent as to why the Corporation should not take  action to put the respondent on holiday as per terms and conditions of  the contract and also referred to the alleged report dated 07.09.2017 in  the   said   show­cause   notice.   It   is   submitted   that   the   reminder   dated  25.11.2017   also   reminds   of   the   fact   that   the   consequential   action   is  taken under Clause 18.6 of the contract. It is submitted that even the  notice dated 20.12.2017 by the Corporation in reference to the earlier  notice   dated   18.10.2017   calls   upon   the   respondent   to   give   reply   on  merits otherwise it will proceed ex parte and quoted the observations of  the alleged report dated 07.09.2017 which was already referred to in the  show­cause notice dated 18.10.2017. It is submitted that thereafter the  respondent   is   put   on   holiday   as   per   Clause   18.6   of   the   terms   of   the  contract by an office order dated 15.02.2018. It is submitted that hence,  the   action   /   intention   of   the   Corporation   to   put   the   respondent   on  holiday   is   a   consequence   of   termination   under   Clause   18.6   of   the  contract   read   with   Clause   18.5   of   the   contract.   Therefore,   when   the  termination   of   the   contract   is   to   be   adjudicated   and   decided   by   the  learned Arbitrator in that case the learned Arbitrator also has power to  adjudicate and decide the consequential action of putting the respondent  on holiday taken pursuant to termination of the contract. 
In   support   of   his   above   submissions,   Shri   Soparkar,   learned  Counsel has  heavily  relied upon the  decision  of the  Hon'ble  Supreme  Court   in   the   case   of  Rashtriya   Ispat   Nigam   Ltd.   &   Anr.   vs.   Verma  Transport Co. reported in (2006)7 SCC 275 (Paras 7, 21 to 23 & 43).  It is submitted that in the aforesaid decision it is held that the cause of  action arose in terms of the contract in respect of illegal termination of  the contract and blacklisting of the firm and it cannot be said to be two  different causes of action. 
[5.7] It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Soparkar,   learned   Counsel  appearing   on   behalf   of   the   respondent   that   if   the   termination   letter  dated  11.10.2017  is  set aside  then  the   office  order dated  15.02.2018  putting the respondent on holiday would not survive inasmuch as the  office order dated 15.02.2018 is a consequence of the termination letter  dated 11.10.2017. It is submitted further that the allegations made and  the grounds on the basis of which the Corporation has terminated the  contract by termination letter dated 11.10.2017 are identical and similar  to put the respondent on holiday by an office order dated 15.02.2018. It  is   submitted   that   therefore,   if   the   respondent   is   directed   to   raise   a  separate dispute as alleged by the Corporation under Clause 27.1 of the  contract for a separate arbitration then in that case there would be two  separate   arbitration   for   same   cause   of   action   based   on   identical  allegations   and   similar   grounds   which   would   lead   to   two   conflicting  awards in two separate arbitration proceedings. It is further submitted  that no prejudice will be caused to the Corporation if the dispute raised  in the amended statement of claim is adjudicated and decided by the  learned Arbitrator. It is submitted that therefore, if the argument of the  Corporation   is   accepted   then   it   would   lead   to   multiplicity   of  proceedings   /   litigation   /   arbitration   which   should   be   curbed   in   the  interest of substantial justice. 
[5.8] It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Soparkar,   learned   Counsel  appearing   on   behalf   of   the   respondent   that   the   bifurcation   of  proceedings in two parts i.e. one for adjudication of the termination of  contract   and   another   for   putting   the   respondent   on   holiday   to   be  decided   in   two   separate   proceedings   would   inevitably   delay   the  proceedings. It is submitted that the whole purpose of speedy disposal of  dispute and cost of litigation would be frustrated by such procedure. It is  submitted   that   it   would   also   increase   the   cost   of   litigation   and  harassment   to   the   parties   and   on   occasions   there   is   possibility   of  conflicting judgment and orders in two separate proceedings. 
[5.9] It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Soparkar,   learned   Counsel  appearing on behalf of the  respondent that the  Corporation  had filed  petition under Article 227 of the Constitution of India challenging the  order dated 31.05.2018 passed by the Commercial Court, Ahmedabad  confirming the order dated 09.05.2018 passed by the learned Arbitrator  under Section 17 of the Arbitration Act. It is submitted that it is settled  position of law that such powers be exercised sparingly and in the rarest  of the rare case which is not one in the present case. It is submitted that  therefore this Court may not exercise the power as the impugned orders  does not suffer from patent perversity nor there has been a gross and  manifest  failure   of   justice   nor  there   is   violation   of  basic  principles  of  natural justice. 
In   support   of   his   above   submissions,   Shri   Soparkar,   learned  Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent has heavily relied upon  the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Shalini Shyam  Shetty & Anr. vs. Rajendra Shankar Patel  reported in  (2010)8 SCC  329 (Paras 47 to 49) as well as the recent decision dated 07.05.2018 of  the Division Bench of this Court rendered in  Special Civil Application  No.737/2018.
[5.10] It  is   further   submitted   by  Shri  Soparkar, learned  Counsel  appearing on behalf of the respondent that the order dated 09.05.2018  is passed by the learned Arbitrator under Section 17 of the Arbitration  Act against which appeal under Section 37(2)(b) of the Arbitration Act is  preferred   before   the   Commercial   Court   on   which   the   order   dated  31.05.2018   is   passed   by   the   Commercial   Court   confirming   the   order  dated 09.05.2018 passed by the learned Arbitrator under Section 17. It  is submitted that the scope of interference by a Commercial Court in an  interim direction given by the learned Arbitrator is very limited more so  because the learned Arbitrator has taken fair, reasonable and equitable  view. 
In   support   of   his   above   submissions,   Shri   Soparkar,   learned  Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent has heavily relied upon  the   decisions   in   the   case   of  Subhash   Chander   Chachra   &   Anr.   vs.  Ashwini Kumar Chachra & Ors. reported in 2007 (95) DRK 55 as well  as   in   the   case   of  Bakshi   Speedways   vs.   Hindustan   Petroleum  Corporation reported in 2009 SCC Online Del 2476 (Para 4). 
[5.11] It  is   further   submitted   by  Shri  Soparkar, learned  Counsel  appearing on behalf of the respondent that there are multiple / various  judgments which support the view taken by the Arbitrator that since the  validity and legality of the termination is yet to be adjudicated till then  the order putting the respondent on blacklisting should be stayed subject  to outcome of the final award as the award of the blacklisting  would  depend upon the termination. 
In   support   of   his   above   submission,   Shri   Soparkar,   learned  Counsel   has   relied   upon   the   decisions   in   the   case   of   (1)  National  Building   Construction   Corporation   Ltd.   vs.   New   Delhi   Municipal  Council   &   Anr.   [138   (2007)   DLT   414   (Para   25)];  (2)  Indian   Oil  Corporation   Ltd.   vs.   SPS   Engineering   Ltd.   [128   (2006)   DLT   417  (Para   16)];  (3)  Prakash   Atlanta   JV   &   Ors.   vs.   National   Highway  Authority of India & Ors. [169 (2010) DLT 664 (Paras 37 & 38)]; (4)  M/s.   Mahavir   Transmission   Udyog   Pvt.   Ltd.   vs.   Punjab   State  Transmission Corporation Ltd. & Ors. [AIR 2014 P&H 21 (Paras 9,  11,   12   &   13)];  (5)  Nagarjuna   Construction   Co.   Ltd.   vs.   State   of  Jharkhand  &  Ors.   [MANU/JH/1211/2011  (Paras  19,  23, 24,  26  & 
28)]  and   (6)  Gujarat   High   Court   -   Centre   for   Development  Communication   vs.   Ahmedabad   Municipal   Corporation   [2017(0)  AIJEL­HC 237439 (Paras 3, 8.1, 8.2 & 8.3)].
[5.12] It  is   further   submitted   by  Shri  Soparkar, learned  Counsel  appearing on behalf of the respondent that as per the settled proposition  of law if the view taken by the learned Arbitrator is a plausible view,  then the same shall not be interfered by the Court in a case where two  inferences are reasonably possible. 
[5.13] It  is   further   submitted   by  Shri  Soparkar, learned  Counsel  appearing on behalf of the respondent that from the separate chronology  of events even by the respondent it can be seen that the respondent has  purchased brand new Prime Mover Diesel Engine of the Make: Kirloskar,  Truck Chassis of Ashok Leyland and Air Compressor of M/s. Positive Gas  &   Air   Equipments   for   which   the   purchase   has   been   paid   by   the  respondent to the  respective  supplier. It is  submitted  that  the  invoice  raised and the payments made by NEFT are on record. It is submitted  that the air compressor is to be aligned with the Diesel Engine with gear  box for smooth running and to be mounted on the Truck Chassis. It is  submitted that therefore, it was to be assembled. It is submitted that on  completion of assembly, it is painted where alignment is carried out and  the equipments are fixed. It is submitted that it is the normal procedure  which  is followed in  such type of assembly. It is submitted  that even  three   independent   inspection   reports   provided   by   the   respondent  provide that the said Air Compressor is new. It is further submitted that  the  Corporation  did  not permit the  respondent to rectify / repair  the  defect as pointed out in the alleged report dated 07.09.2017 though it is  required to be permitted under Clause 3.12.2(G). It is submitted that in  short   the   Corporation   was   determined   to   terminate   the   contract   and  initiate consequence action to put respondent on holiday. It is submitted  that   despite   various   representations   and   offer   by   the   respondent   to  physically check the MAC part by part at the cost of the respondent to  show that it is a new one, the Corporation refused to do it. 
[5.14] It  is   further   submitted   by  Shri  Soparkar, learned  Counsel  appearing on behalf of the respondent that it is pertinent to note that the  maximum   "punishment"   that   the   respondent   might   have   to   suffer,   if  termination is found to be valid is to be put on holiday is two years. It is  submitted   that   the   learned   Arbitrator   has   yet   to   adjudicate   whether  termination is valid. It is submitted that pending this adjudication if the  Corporation is permitted to put the respondent on holiday even without  any  adjudication   as   to  the   default  the   respondent  starts  suffering  the  punishment. It is submitted that if the later on the learned Arbitrator  holds   that   the   termination   was   illegal   /   unjustified,   the   loss   that  respondent would suffer for being put on holiday during interregnum  period cannot be compensated. It is submitted that apart from extreme  difficulty, almost impossibility, to prove damages, the second litigation  would involve time, money and energy on both sides. It is submitted that  as against that if pending arbitration the suspension order is stayed the  petitioner   will   not   suffer   at   all   because   as   directed   by   the   learned  Arbitrator, in case if the respondent loses in arbitration proceedings, it  can always be put on holiday for remaining period of two years. It is  submitted that this clearly shows that the balance of convenience is in  favour of the respondent. 
[5.15] It  is   further   submitted   by  Shri  Soparkar, learned  Counsel  appearing on behalf of the respondent that the  respondent has major  business with the Corporation since 1994 and has successfully completed  134 contracts and approximately 44 are running as on March, 2018. It is  submitted that if the respondent is put on holiday for two years and the  said punishment is implemented then the respondent would not be able  to participate in tender inquiries. It is submitted that on the other hand if  the respondent succeeds in arbitration and the termination is set aside  then the order putting the respondent on holiday would not survive but  by then the respondent would have suffered the punishment of holiday  for two years. It is submitted that loss to goodwill and reputation of the  respondent   cannot   be   compensated   in   terms   of   money.   It   is   further  submitted   that   the   financial   loss   cannot   be   compensated   in   terms   of  money as it would be difficult to come to conclusion that in those two  years the respondent would have participated in all the tender inquiries  and that the tender would have been awarded to the respondent and the  profit arising out of such contract could be crystallized. It is submitted  that infact in a decision reported in 2018 SCC Online Guj 805, this Court  did not grant claim towards loss of business caused due to blacklisting as  such business loss was not proved. It is therefore submitted that even for  the respondent it would not be possible to prove business loss for putting  the respondent on holiday by the Corporation. 
It is further submitted that on the other hand, no loss would be  caused to the Corporation if the Office Order is stayed on a condition  that it would be revived for the remaining period out of total two years  of holiday in case the respondent does not succeed in the arbitration. It  is   further   submitted   that   Clause   18.6   stipulates   that   in   case   of  termination, the obligation of the Corporation to pay shall be limited to  the period up to the date of termination. It is submitted that Clause 35.0  of the contract provides that the respondent shall not be liable whether  in contract, tort or otherwise or any consequential loss or damage, loss  of   use,   loss   of   production   or   loss   of   profits   or   interest   cost   to   the  Corporation. 
[5.16] It  is   further   submitted   by  Shri  Soparkar, learned  Counsel  appearing on behalf of the respondent that infact the respondent is put  on holiday w.e.f. 11.10.2017 by an Office Order dated 15.02.2018. It is  submitted that despite the Office Order dated 15.02.2018 is stayed by  the learned Tribunal and confirmed by the Commercial Court which has  not   stayed   the   said   order,   the   Corporation   on   its   own   have   not  unblocked the Vendor Code and has still disallowed the respondent from  participating in tender inquiries. It is submitted that the respondent is  therefore out of business from 11.10.2017 i.e. for a period of almost 9  months out of the total period of two years. 
[5.17] Now, so far as the submission on behalf of the Corporation  that the proceedings are barred under Order 23 Rule 1 of the Code of  Civil Procedure, 1908, in view of the withdrawal of the petition by the  respondent   is   concerned,   it   is   submitted   by   Shri   Soparkar,   learned  Counsel for the respondent that the petition was filed challenging the  action   of   blocking   the   Vendor   Code   pending   the   enquiry   to   put   the  respondent on holiday was challenged and the show­cause notice dated  18.10.2017. It is submitted that the said petition was withdrawn by an  order dated 02.02.2018  with  permission  of the  High Court to initiate  proceedings for interim measures before the learned Arbitrator who was  by   then   appointed   and   had   fixed   the   meeting   on   06.02.2018.   It   is  submitted   that   the   liberty   was   also   reserved.   It   is   submitted   that   the  permission   was   granted   by   the   High   Court   and   therefore,   the  proceedings cannot be barred under Order 23 Rule 1 of the CPC. It is  further submitted that the Office Order dated 15.02.2018 was not the  subject matter of the petition and therefore also, the provisions of Order  23 Rule 1 of the CPC would not be attracted. It is therefore submitted  that the proceedings are maintainable before the learned Arbitrator. 
[5.18] It  is   further   submitted   by  Shri  Soparkar, learned  Counsel  appearing   on   behalf   of   the   respondent   that   the   Integrated   Materials  Manual (IMM) is not a part of the contract and hence the said Manual is  not binding upon the respondent. It is submitted that in fact, the show­ cause   notice   dated   18.10.2017   nowhere   refers   that   the   proceedings  under the said manual is initiated and the said show­cause notice dated  18.10.2017 only refers to action under Clause 18.6 of the contract. It is  submitted that hence, the said contention of the Corporation that the  action   under   manual   is   an   afterthought   as   it   was   never   taken   under  Manual under show­cause notice dated 18.10.2017. It is submitted that  hence, the action is not independent and distinct of the contract. 
[5.19] It  is   further   submitted   by  Shri  Soparkar, learned  Counsel  appearing   on   behalf   of   the   respondent   that   the   argument   of   the  Corporation that the relief granted to the respondent is "Final Relief" 
and   cannot   be   granted   at   an   interim   stage   is   also   incorrect.   It   is  submitted that in case if it is held that the respondent was at fault, the  order of suspension can be revived. It is submitted that for the present,  however, the issue is pending in arbitration the relief that can be granted  to the respondent. It is submitted that this is only an interim protection  under Section 17 of the Arbitration Act. It is submitted that the learned  Arbitrator would not be and is not been called upon to decide the order  of suspension as an independent dispute. It is submitted that the learned  Arbitrator is required to decide the validity of termination and pending  that adjudication whether such a suspension is called for. 
Making above submissions and relying upon above decisions, it is  requested to dismiss the present petition. 
[6.0] Heard   learned   Counsel   appearing   on   behalf   of   the   respective  parties at length. 
What is challenged in the present petition is the impugned order  passed by the learned Commercial Court confirming the order passed by  the learned Arbitral Tribunal under Section 17 of the Arbitration Act and  by way of interim measure the learned Arbitrator has directed to stay  further   implementation   and   operation   of   the   order   passed   by   the  petitioner putting the respondent Contractor on holiday. 
[6.1] It   is   required   to   be   noted   that   as   such   the   respondent   herein  initiated the arbitration proceedings by invoking the arbitration clause -  clause 27 contained in the contract challenging the termination of the  contract and for ancillary reliefs. That the termination of the contract  can be said to be under Clause 18.4 of the contract agreement. However,  thereafter, the proceedings were going on to blacklist / put on holiday  the respondent Contractor and number of notices were issued by which  the respondent Contractor and thereafter its Directors etc. were called  upon to show­cause why they may not be put on holiday. Thereafter,  after the contract was terminated and even the arbitration proceedings  were initiated, the order came to be passed by the petitioner putting on  holiday   the   respondent   Contractor   as   well   as   its   Directors   etc.   It   is  required to be noted that as such the respondent Contractor challenged  the order putting them on holiday before this Court by way of Special  Civil Application No.19289/2017, however, thereafter they withdrew the  same   with   a   liberty   to   submit   an   appropriate   application   for   interim  measure   before   the   learned   Arbitrator   under   Section   17   of   the  Arbitration Act. At this stage it is required to be noted that as such the  petition   was   withdrawn   with   a   liberty   to   initiate   proceedings   under  Section 17 of the Arbitration Act. Despite the same while submitting the  application   under   Section   17   for   interim   measure   in   which   the  respondent Contractor prayed for stay of implementation and operation  of the order putting them on holiday, simultaneously they submitted the  application   to   amend   the   statement   of   claim   challenging   the   order  putting them on hold / blacklisting them which came to be allowed. The  statement of claim was  also permitted  to be amended. The petitioner  submitted   the   application   under   Section   16   of   the   Arbitration   Act  challenging the jurisdiction of the learned Arbitral Tribunal to consider  the   question   with   respect   to   the   subsequent   action   of   putting   the  Contractor   and   its   Directors   etc.   on   holiday.   The   learned   Arbitrator  decided  and disposed of section  16 application  by detailed order and  held that it had jurisdiction to consider the issue / question with respect  to putting the respondent Contractor and its Directors etc. on holiday. It  is required to be noted that simultaneously on the very day the learned  Arbitrator   has   passed   the   impugned   order   in   an   application   under  Section 17 of the Arbitration Act simply following the reasonings and the  observations made while disposing of section 16 application. It is true  that order passed under Section 16 of the Arbitration Act has not been  challenged. However, at the same time, considering the provisions of the  Arbitration Act as well as the Commercial Courts Act, the same cannot  be challenged and even the order passed by the learned Arbitrator on  jurisdiction can be challenged only in an appeal against the final award.  Even that is so observed by the learned Commercial Court. Under the  circumstances   and   even   considering   the   fact   that   while   deciding   and  disposing   of   section   17   application,   the   learned   Arbitral   Tribunal   has  solely   considered   the   reasoning   and   finding   recorded   while   deciding  section 16 application, non­challenge to the order passed in section 16  application   shall  not  come  in  the   way  of  the  petitioner   to  the   extent  pointing out the balance of convenience.  
[6.2] It  is   mainly  contended  on   behalf   of   the   respondent  that   as  the  subsequent   order   of   putting   the   Contractor   and   its   Director   etc.   on  holiday   is   a   consequence   of   order   of   termination   of   contract   and  considering Clause 18 of the contract agreement, the same can be said to  be a continuous cause of action and therefore, in arbitration proceedings  challenging the termination of the contract, the same can be permitted  to be agitated before the learned Arbitral Tribunal. It is also the case on  behalf   of   the   respondent   Contractor   that  when   the  notice   was  issued  invoking   the   arbitration   clause   challenging   the   termination   of   the  contract, the notice was very wide including the question with respect to  the blacklisting and therefore, the order of blacklisting and/or putting  the   respondent   on   holiday   can   be   the   subject   matter   of   arbitration  proceedings even without issuing any fresh notice. 
[6.3] On the other hand, it is the specific case on behalf of the petitioner  that the order putting the Contract and its Directors on holiday is not a  consequence  of   the   termination   of   the   contract  and  it  is  altogether   a  different cause of action relying  upon the General Manual and it has  nothing to do with the termination of the contract. It is also the case on  behalf   of   the   petitioner   that   even   at   the   time   when   the   arbitration  proceedings   were   initiated   while   issuing   the   notice   invoking   the  arbitration   clause   and   even   when   the   arbitration   proceedings  commenced,   no   order   blacklisting   the   respondent   was   passed   and  therefore,   considering   relevant   clause   more   particularly   considering  Clause  27 without  issuing   any specific  notice  invoking  the  arbitration  clause even with respect to the blacklisting the arbitration proceedings  cannot be commenced and therefore, without following the procedure as  required under Clause 27 the learned Arbitrator has no jurisdiction. 
[6.4] Having heard learned Counsel appearing for respective parties at  length   and   considering   the   material   on   record   more   particularly   the  execution of notices, notice invoking arbitration clause, relevant clauses  of the contract agreement more particularly Clause 18 and Clause 27  and the order terminating the contract and the subsequent order putting  the  respondent Contractor and its Directors on holiday and the stand  taken   by   the   respective   parties,   we   are   of   the   opinion   that   that   the  subsequent   action   /   order   putting   the   respondent   Contractor   and   its  Directors on holiday is not the consequence of the termination of the  contract. It  prima facie  appears that the  order putting  the  respondent  Contractor and its Directors on holiday is not passed under Clause 18 of  the contract agreement. The subsequent order / action is altogether a  different cause of action and is passed under General Contract Manual  and   not   under   Clause   18.   Under   the   circumstances,   we   are   of   the  opinion that there are serious disputes with respect to even jurisdiction  of the learned Arbitral Tribunal to entertain and consider the dispute  with respect to putting the respondent Contractor and its Directors on  holiday. At this stage it is required to be noted that the order blacklisting  the respondent Contractor and its Directors cannot be said to be under  Clause   18   as   in   Clause   18   there   is   no   question   of   even   putting   the  Directors of the respondent Contractor on holiday. The relevant Clause  18 is already reproduced herein above. Therefore, the decisions which  are   relied   upon   by   the   learned   Counsel   appearing   on   behalf   of   the  respondent   that   in   support   of   his   submission   that   as   the   order  blacklisting / putting on holiday the respondent Contractor can be said  to be the consequence of the termination of the contract and therefore,  the same shall be permissible in a arbitration proceedings challenging  the   termination   of   the   contract   are   not   applicable   in   the   facts   and  circumstances of the case. 
[6.5] It   is   required   to   be   noted   that   even   the   day   on   which   the  arbitration clause was invoked and the notice was issued and even the  arbitration proceedings commenced in which the only dispute was with  respect to termination of the contract, no cause of action with respect to  blacklisting the respondent Contractor and/or putting them on holiday  had arisen. 
[6.6] It is also required to be noted that when the arbitration clause was  invoked and the notice was issued invoking the arbitration clause the  only dispute raised was with respect to the termination of the contract.  Considering   various   notices   and   the   notice   invoking   the   arbitration  clause,   it   cannot   be   said   that   the   same   was   also   with   respect   to   the  action putting the respondent Contractor and its Director on holiday. At  that stage as observed herein above even the  same was  at the  show­ cause notice stage. Blocking the Vendor Code has nothing to do with the  subsequent order putting the respondent Contractor and its Directors on  holiday. 
[6.7] Under the circumstances and considering the aforesaid facts and  circumstances there are very serious contentious issues with respect to  the jurisdiction of the learned Arbitral Tribunal to consider and decide  the   dispute   with   respect   to   the   order   blacklisting   the   respondent  Contractor and/or putting them on holiday. The same is required to be  considered while considering the balance of convenience and prima facie   case. 
[6.8] Even   otherwise   on   facts   and   considering   serious   allegations  enumerated   in   the   order   blacklisting   and/or   putting   on   holiday   the  respondent Contractor and its Directors more particularly with respect to  the   fraud   committed   in   supplying   old   machinery   etc.,   we   are   of   the  opinion   that   both,   the   learned   Arbitral   Tribunal   as   well   as   learned  Commercial   Court   have   materially   erred   in   holding   the   balance   of  convenience and prima facie case in favour of the respondent Contractor. 
[6.9] Even otherwise we are of the opinion that such an order of staying  the  order passed by the  appropriate  Authority putting  the  respondent  Contractor   and   its   Directors   on   holiday   cannot   be   stayed   by   way   of  interim measure in an application under Section 17 of the Arbitration  Act. Nobody can be compelled to enter into the contract. If at all any  remedy is there, it is to claim damages afterwards but by way of such  interim measure such an order keeping in abeyance the order passed by  the   appropriate   Authority   putting   the   Contractor   on   holiday   and/or  blacklisting   them   is   not   justified.   Under   the   circumstances   both,   the  learned Arbitral Tribunal as well as the learned Commercial Court have  materially erred in holding the balance of convenience, prima facie case  and irreparable loss in favour of the respondent. Therefore, in the facts  and circumstances of the case the decisions relied upon by the learned  Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent shall not be applicable to  the facts of the case on hand more particularly with respect to serious  allegations   of   fraud,   cheating   etc.   of   supplying   old   machinery   and  treating and showing them as new machinery after painting the same.   
[6.10] We   do   not   further   observe   anything   on   merits   as   it   may  affect either parties in other proceedings may be proceedings pending  before the learned Arbitral Tribunal. Suffice it to say that in the facts and  circumstances of the case the learned Arbitral Tribunal was not justified  in passing such an order of interim measure in exercise of powers under  Section  17 of the  Arbitration  Act.  The  learned Commercial  Court  has  materially erred in confirming the same. 
[7.0] In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, present  Special   Civil   Application   succeeds.   Impugned   order   dated   31.05.2018  passed by the learned Commercial Court, City Civil Court, Ahmedabad in  Civil Misc. Application No.37/2018 as well as the impugned order dated  09.05.2018  passed by the  learned Arbitral  Tribunal below application  Exh.17 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 are hereby quashed  and set aside. Rule is made absolute accordingly. No costs. 
Sd/­            (M.R. SHAH, J.)  Sd/­          (A.Y. KOGJE, J.)  Ajay**