Take notes as you read a judgment using our Virtual Legal Assistant and get email alerts whenever a new judgment matches your query (Query Alert Service). Try out our Premium Member Services -- Sign up today and get free trial for one month.
Gujarat High Court
Swan Lng Pvt. Ltd. vs National Marine Infrastructure India ... on 26 February, 2018
Bench: M.R. Shah, A.Y. Kogje
          C/FA/577/2018                                        JUDGMENT



            IN THE HIGH COURT OF GUJARAT AT AHMEDABAD

                           FIRST APPEAL NO.  577 of 2018
                                       With 
                          CIVIL APPLICATION NO. 1 of 2018
 
FOR APPROVAL AND SIGNATURE: 

HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE M.R. SHAH                                 sd/­
and
HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE A.Y. KOGJE                                 sd/­
=========================================
1      Whether Reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see        NO
       the judgment ?

2      To be referred to the Reporter or not ?                            NO

3      Whether their Lordships wish to see the fair copy of the           NO
       judgment ?

4      Whether this case involves a substantial question of law as        NO
       to the interpretation of the Constitution of India or any 
       order made thereunder ?

=============================================
                        SWAN LNG PVT. LTD.
                               Versus
           NATIONAL MARINE INFRASTRUCTURE INDIA PVT. LTD.
=============================================
Appearance:
MR.   KAMAL   TRIVEDI,   SENIOR   ADVOCATE   WITH   MR.   JAY   KANSARA   FOR 
M/S WADIAGHANDY & CO for the PETITIONER(s) No. 1
MR. MIHIR THAKOR, SENIOR ADVOCATE WITH MS PAURAMIB SHETH for 
the RESPONDENT(s) No. 1
=============================================
  CORAM: HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE M.R. SHAH
         and
         HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE A.Y. KOGJE
                         Date : 26/02/2018
                         ORAL JUDGMENT
  (PER : HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE M.R. SHAH) 1.0. Admit. Ms. Paurami Sheth, learned advocate waives service  of notice of admission on behalf of the respondent. In the facts and  circumstances   of   the   case   and   with   the   consent   of   the   learned  C/FA/577/2018 JUDGMENT advocates for the respective parties, the appeal is taken up for final  hearing today. 
2.0. Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned further  order   passed   by   the   learned   Judge,   Commercial   Court,   Rajkot  passed below Exh.1 in Civil Miscellaneous Application No.3 of 2018  dated 17.02.2018, the original defendant has preferred the present  First   Appeal   under   Section   13   of   the   Commercial   Courts,  Commercial   Division   and   Commercial   Appellate   Division   of   the  High Courts Act, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as the " Commercial  Court Act, 2015"). 
3.0.  The facts leading to the present First Appeal in nutshell are  as under: 
3.1. A concessionaire agreement was executed in favour of SEL,  whereby SEL was required to construct the LNG Port infrastructure  facility   on   the   land   allotted   to   it   by   the   authority.   That   prior  thereto,   Gujarat   Maritime   Board   vide   its   communication   dated  28.11.2013 issued Letter of Intent in favour of SEL for setting up a  Greenfield   LNG   Port   Terminal   FSRU   facility   in   Jafrabad.   That  thereafter, aforesaid agreement was executed in favour of SEL. SEL  was   required   to   initiate   the   construction   of   Port   facility   upon  receiving a construction permission from GMB. Therefore, for the  purpose   of   executing   the   work,   SEL   floated   a   Special   Purpose  Vehicle by the name of Swan LNG Pvt. Ltd (appellant herein) on  12.02.2013.   That   in   order   to   facilitate   the   project   and   for   the  purpose   of   construction   of   LNG   Infrastructure   Facility,   which  includes work of dredging, reclamation and marine work, a tender  C/FA/577/2018 JUDGMENT was   issued   inter   alia,   inviting   bids   from   various   entities. 
Accordingly,   respondent   herein   participated   in   the   process   and  submitted its tender. On the basis of evaluation of technical and the  financial   parameters   as   incorporated   in   the   bidding   document,  respondent herein was selected for carrying out construction work  of LNG Port infrastructure facility including dredging and marine  work. A Letter of Award dated 05.08.2016 was issued in favour of  the respondent herein. It appears that on 15.11.2016, the parties  entered   into   an   Agreement   for   Engineering,   Procurement,  Construction   and   Commissioning   Contract   for   the   purpose   of  construction   of   LNG   Portal   infrastructure   facility   at   Jafrabad.  According   to   the   appellant,   time   was   the   essence   of   contract  agreement   and   the   Marine   Work   was   required   to   be   completed  within   an   overall   period   of   36   months   from   the   date   of  commencement and Dredging and Reclamation Work was required  to be completed within an overall time line of 22 months from the  date of commencement. That the total contract price was fixed at  INR 2215,45,25,200/­. That the respondent was required to furnish  a Performance Bank Guarantee for an amount equivalent to 9% of  the   total   contract   price   i.e.   INR   190,39,07,268/­     in   favour   of  appellant   within   a   period   of   28   days   from   the   effective   date   of  Contract   Agreement.   That   the   respondent   to   furnish   the  Performance   Bank   Guarantee   of  Rs.190,39,07,268/­.   However,   it  appears that first Bank Guarantee was not in consonance with the  Contract Agreement and the appellant disputed such Performance  Bank   Guarantee   and   thereafter   amended   the   Performance   Bank  Guarantee   was   provided   by   the   respondent   on  23.03.2017.   That  the   said   Bank   Guarantee   is   unconditional   and   irrevocable.   It  C/FA/577/2018 JUDGMENT appears   that   thereafter   dispute   arose   between   the   parties   as  according   to   the   appellant,   the   respondent­   Contractor   did   not  commence the work and the respondent failed to adhere to time  line   provided   under   the   contract   agreement.   At   this   stage,   it   is  required to be noted that the Contract Agreement provides various  Key   Milestones   (KM)   and   Control   Milestones   (CM)   which   were  strictly required to be adhered to by respondent Contractor.  The  dispute arose between the parties as Key Milestones and Control  Milestones   were   not   achieved   by   the   respondent.   There   were  various correspondences between the parties, for which, talks were  going on to extend the cut off date, however thereafter same was  not   further   materialized   as   it   needed   the   novatio   of   contract   as  terms and conditions of the contract were required to be amended.  According to the appellant, in order to achieve the project as per  the LNG Policy, 2012, it was required to complete the construction  work within a period of 36 months since various other entities such  as Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation Limited, Bharat Petroleum  Corporation   Limited,   Indian   Oil   Corporation   Limited   and   ONGC  Limited   executed   Re­gasification   Agreement   with   appellant   and  have   become   the   Terminal   Users.   Therefore,   according   to   the  appellant any delay in completion of construction of LNG Terminal  shall   invite   heavy   penalties   upon   appellant   from   the  aforementioned   entities.   In   addition   to   the   above,   appellant   has  also   executed   a   Bank   Guarantee   for   an   amount   of  Rs.72,57,00,000/­   as   construction   approval   granted   by   GMB   on  08.12.2016.
3.2. According   to   the   appellant,   owing   to   various   delay  C/FA/577/2018 JUDGMENT attributable to the respondent, entire project has been delayed and  appellant   is   on   the   verge   of   facing   penal   actions   those   may   be  initiated by various entities for non completion of work within the  stipulated time period. It is the case on behalf of the appellant that  therefore,   considering   the   aforesaid   facts   and   circumstances,  parties mutually agreed to reduce the scope of Contract Agreement  and   thereby,   allowing   appellant   to   expedite   the   process   of  construction of LNG Port infrastructure facility, however, without  affecting   and   /   or   amending   the   terms   and   conditions   of   the  contract   agreement   that   before   revised   terms   of   the   contract  agreement   came   to   be   finalized   and   /   or   during   the   course   of  negotiations   between   the   parties   and  when   revised   terms   of   the  contract   agreement   were   being   finalized,   the   respondent   herein  approached   the   Commercial   Court   at   Rajkot   on   09.02.2018   by  preferring   Commercial   Civil   Miscellaneous   Application   No.   3   of  2018   under   Section   9   of   the   Arbitration   Act   and   prayed   for  appropriate   relief   to   restrain   the   appellant   herein   from   invoking  Bank   Guarantee.   That   vide   order   dated   09.02.2018,   the   learned  Commercial Court issued the urgent show cause notice by passing a  detailed   speaking   order   and   observing   why   ex­parte   ad­interim  injunction restraining the appellant herein original opponent from  invoking the Bank Guarantee is not issued. The notice was made  returnable on 16.02.2018. The observations made by the learned  Commercial   Court   made   in   the   order   dated   09.02.2018   shall   be  referred to hereinafter. As there was no injunction granted by the  learned Commercial Court and as Performance Bank Guarantee in  favour   of   the   appellant   was   unconditional   and   irrevocable  Performance Bank Guarantee, the appellant herein in fact invoked  C/FA/577/2018 JUDGMENT the Bank Guarantee. A Bank draft was issued by the Banker­ Axis  Bank   in   favour   of   the   appellant.   That   on   16.02.2018   on   the  returnable   dated,   the   learned   Presiding   Officer   /   Judge   was   not  available   as   he   was   on   leave.   The   appellant   herein   appeared  through its advocate on 16.01.2018 itself. Adjournment application  at   Exh.12   was   submitted   on   behalf   of   the   appellant­   original  opponent. It appears that in the said application, it was specifically  stated that amount of bank guarantee has already been deposited  in   the   account   of   the   opponent.   The   matter   was   adjourned   to  17.02.2018.   On   17.02.2018,   the   learned   Judge   has   passed   the  impugned order and has ordered that in case if the demand draft  issued by the Axis Bank in favour of the appellant herein ­ original  opponent has not so far as been encashed, thereby crediting the  amount thereunder to the account of the opponent, the same may  not   be   processed   further.   The   learned   Judge   has   also   further  observed   that   in   case,   however,   the   draft   has   already   been  encashed,   by   crediting   the   account,   the   said   amount   be   kept  suspended   i.e. it may not be permitted to be withdrawn by the  opponent for the time being. That thereafter, the learned Judge has  adjourned the matter to 06.03.2018. 
3.3. Feeling  aggrieved   and  dissatisfied  with  the  impugned  order passed by the learned Judge, Commercial Court, Rajkot dated  17.02.2018 passed below Exh. 1, original opponent has preferred  present First Appeal under Section 13 of the Commercial Court Act,  2015.   
4.0. Shri Kamal Trivedi, learned Senior Advocate has appeared on  C/FA/577/2018 JUDGMENT behalf   of   the   appellant   herein   original   opponent   and   Shri   Mihir  Thakore, learned Senior Advocate has appeared on behalf of the  respondent herein­ original applicant. 
5.0. Shri   Kamal   Trivedi,   learned   Senior   Advocate   appearing   on  behalf   of   the   appellant   ­   original   opponent   has   vehemently  submitted   that   in   the   facts   and   circumstances   of   the   case,   the  learned   Commercial   Court   has   materially   erred   in   passing   the  impugned order. 
5.1. It is further submitted by Shri Kamal Trivedi, learned Counsel  for   the   appellant   that   in   fact   the   very   the   learned   Judge   on  09.02.2018   by   speaking   order   refused   to   grant   any   ad­interim  injunction and issued only show cause notice and despite the same  without   there   being   any   change   in   the   circumstances   on   the  observations  made  in  the  order  dated  09.02.2018  and  when  the  appellant   ­   original   opponent   was   yet   to   file   reply   to   Section   9  application, the learned Judge has passed by the impugned order,  by which, not only the appellant has likely to suffer irreparable loss  even the appellant is likely to face other consequences from GMB  and other authorities.
5.2.   It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Kamal   Trivedi,   learned  Counsel for  the  appellant   that  in  fact  appellant  herein ­  original  opponent in invoking / encashing Bank Guarantee and even Axis  Bank   issued   the   demand   draft   in   favour   of   appellant   herein   ­  original opponent and in fact the said demand draft was deposited  in the Bank account of the appellant. It is submitted that therefore,  as such nothing further was required to be done by the Axis Bank /  C/FA/577/2018 JUDGMENT Banker   with   respect   to   said   Performance   Bank   Guarantee.   It   is  submitted   that   therefore,   as  such   learned   Commercial   Court   has  materially erred in passing the impugned order. It is submitted that  as   such   the   impugned   order   passed   by   the   learned   Commercial  Court is just contrary to its own observations made in the order  dated 09.02.2018, by which, learned Judge issued only show cause  notice and did not grant any ex­parte ad­interim injunction. 
5.3.   It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Kamal   Trivedi,   learned  Counsel for the appellant that even otherwise Performance  Bank  Guarantee which was executed by the respondent herein­ original  applicant was irrevocable and unconditional Bank Guarantee and  therefore,   also   no   injunction   at   the   instance   of   the   respondent  herein   ­   original  applicant,   restraining  the   appellant   herein   from  encashing / invoking the Bank Guarantee could have been granted  by the learned Commercial Court.  It is submitted that the terms  and   conditions   of   the   Performance   Bank   Guarantee   provided  irrespective   of   any   dispute   between   the   appellant   and   the  respondent, the appellant shall be entitled to invoke / encash the  Performance   Bank   Guarantee   on   the   request   made   by   the  appellant. It is submitted that therefore, as the Performance Bank  Guarantee executed by the respondent herein ­ original applicant  was  unconditional  and irrevocable  neither any injunction  can  be  granted restraining the Bank from encashing the Bank Guarantee  nor even the appellant herein can be restrained from encashing /  invoking Performance Bank Guarantee. 
5.4. In   support   of   his   above   submission,   Shri   Trivedi,   leaned  C/FA/577/2018 JUDGMENT Counsel   for   the   appellant   has   heavily   relied   upon   the   following  decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court as well as recent decision  of the Division Bench of this Court in the case of Hindustan Dorr  Oliver Limited vs. Gujarat State Fertilizers and Chemicals Limited  rendered   in   First   Appeal   No.   891   of   2017,   which   has   been  confirmed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in SLP (C) No.8939 of  2017. 
(1). UP State Sugar Corporation vs. Sumac International Limited  reported in (1997) 1 SCC 568.
(2). Dwarikesh   Sugar   Industries   Limited   vs.   Prem   Heavy  Engineering Works (P) Ltd reported in (1997) 6 SCC 450.
(3). U.P. Cooperative Federation Ltd. vs. Singh Consultants and  Engineers (P) Ltd reported in (1998) 1 SCC 110.
(4). Himadri  Chemicals   Industries  Ltd vs.   Coal   Tar  Refining Co  reported in (2007) 8 SCC 110.
(5). Vintec Electronics Private Limited vs. HCL Info systems Ltd  reported in (2008) 1 SCC 544.
(6). BSES Ltd vs. Fenner India Ltd and Anr reported in (2006) 2  SCC 728.
(7). M/s.   Adani   Agri   Fresh   Ltd   vs.   Mahaboob   Sharif   and   Ors  reported in 2015 SCC Online SC 1302.
(8). Ansal Engineering Projects Ltd vs. Tehri Hydro Development  Corporation Ltd. & Anr reported in (1996) 5 SCC 450.
C/FA/577/2018 JUDGMENT (9). Bank of Baroda vs. Ruby Sales Corporation (Agency) & Anr  reported in (2006) SCC Online Guj 130.
Making   above   submissions   and   relying   upon   the   above  decisions, it is requested to allow the present appeal and quash and  set aside the impugned order dated 17.01.2018.
6.0. Shri   Mihir   Thakore,   learned   Counsel   for   the   respondent­  original applicant has vehemently opposed the present Appeal.
6.1. It is vehemently submitted by Shri Thakore, learned counsel  for   the   respondent   that   as   the   impugned   order   passed   by   the  learned Judge, Commercial Court can be said to be interlocutory  order / interim order and a final order is yet to be passed by the  learned Judge, Commercial Court in Section 9 Application of the  Arbitration   Act,   he   has   requested   not   to   interfere   with   the  impugned order. 
6.2. Shri   Thakore,   learned   counsel   for   the   respondent­   original  applicant   has   further   submitted   that   in   fact   the   relief   which   is  sought   by   the   original   applicant   in   Section   9   application   is  restraining the appellant herein ­ original opponent from encashing  / invoking Bank Guarantee and no relief is sought against the Bank  and therefore, the decisions relied upon by the learned counsel for  the appellant  referred to herein above shall not be applicable. 
6.3. It is further submitted by Shri Thakore, learned counsel for  the respondent­ original applicant that as such when negotiations  were going on and in fact it was agreed by and between the parties  that the respondent herein ­ original applicant was not required to  C/FA/577/2018 JUDGMENT do any further work on marine and was required to complete the  dredging   work   and   that   too   during   the   extended   period,   the  appellant   herein   fraudulently   invoked   the   Bank   Guarantee.   It   is  submitted that therefore, when the fraud is alleged and it is the  case on behalf of the respondent herein ­ original applicant that the  appellant herein ­ original opponent has invoked / encashed the  Bank Guarantee fraudulently, decisions relied upon by the learned  counsel   for   the   appellant   referred   to   herein   above   shall   not   be  applicable to the facts of the case on hand. 
6.4. It is further submitted by Shri Thakore, learned counsel for  the respondent­ original applicant that number of submissions have  been   made   by   the   learned   counsel   for   the   respondent   herein­  original applicant in support of the case on behalf of the original  applicant   that   the   delay   was   attributable   to   appellant.   It   is  submitted that in any case, after negotiations, the cut off date was  extended  and  during  the   extended  period,   the   original   applicant  was required to do dredging work only and that the respondent  herein   ­   original   applicant   was    relieved  from   doing   any  further  marine work.  It is further submitted that therefore, also opponent  herein ought not to have encashed / invoked. It is submitted that  therefore, in the facts and circumstances of the case, the learned  Judge has not committed any error in passing the impugned order. 
6.5. It is further submitted by Shri Thakore, learned counsel for  the respondent­ original applicant that even as per the negotiations  and   the   proposed   agreement   amount   of   Performance   of   Bank  Guarantee was required to be reduced to Rs.23 Crores only (even  C/FA/577/2018 JUDGMENT according to the appellant herein ­ original opponent Rs.59 Crores  only)   there   was   no   justification   to   invoke   the   entire   Bank  Guarantee of Rs.190 Crores. 
6.6. It is further submitted by Shri Thakore, learned counsel for  the respondent­ original applicant that as such a huge sum is due  and payable  to the original applicant for the work done and for  which, as such, running bills have been issued. It is submitted that  as   such   more   than   70%   of   the   dredging   work   has   been   done   /  completed by the original applicant. It is submitted that therefore,  also   there   is   no   justification   for   the   appellant   herein­   original  opponent to invoke / encash the entire Bank Guarantee of Rs.190  Corers. 
Making   above   submissions,   it   is   requested   to   dismiss   the  present appeal. 
7.0. In   rejoinder,   Shri   Kamal   Trivedi,   learned   Counsel   for   the  appellant   has   vehemently   submitted   that   as   such   matter   arising  between   parties   of   the   dispute   arising   in   the   contract   inter­se  between   the   contracting   parties.   It   is   submitted   that   as   the  Performance   Bank   Guarantee   issued   was   conditional   and  irrevocable and thereafter when same came to be invoked there is  no   question   of   fraud   as   alleged   by   the   original   applicant.   It   is  submitted   that   as   such   on   the   aforesaid   ground   Section   9  application   is   not   moved   and   on   the   aforesaid   ground,   the  injunction restraining the appellant herein from encashing the Bank  Guarantee   is   not   sought.   It   is   submitted   that   there   are   no   such  averment / allegation in Section 9 application. It is submitted that  C/FA/577/2018 JUDGMENT only in  a case where the fraud is alleged at the time of executing  the   contract   between   the   parties   that   the   Bank   Guarantee   is  irrevocable and unconditional, the same can be invoked / encahsed  in whose favour Bank Guarantee is issued.
7.1.   Now,   so   far   as   submission   on   behalf   of   the   respondent   ­  original applicant that as the relief sought in Section 9 Application  is against the appellant herein ­ original opponent and no relief is  sought against the Bank, it is submitted that even in the case before  this   Court   in   Hindustan   Dorr   Oliver   Limited   (supra),   the   relief  sought was against one of the contracting party restraining it from  encashing Bank Guarantee and even no relief was sought against  the Bank, the Division Bench of this Court has specifically observed  and held that once the Bank Guarantee executed is unconditional  and irrevocable, no injunction can be granted. It is submitted that  the   said   decision   has   been   confirmed   by   the   Hon'ble   Supreme  Court. 
Making   above   submissions,   it   is   requested   to   allow   the  present Appeal.
8.0. At   the   outset,   it   is   required   to   be   noted   that   Shri   Trivedi,  learned  counsel  for  the  appellant   herein  ­  original   opponent  has  suggested   that   as   the   Bank   Guarantee   is   already   invoked   /  encashed   and   demand   draft   is   already   deposited   in   the   Bank  Account of the appellant, till final decision on Section 9 application  is taken and subject to further order that may be passed, appellant  is   ready   and   willing   to   keep   the   said   amount   aside,   to   the   said  suggestion,   Shri   Thakore,   learned   counsel   for   the   respondent   ­  C/FA/577/2018 JUDGMENT original   applicant   has   stated   at   the   bar   that   respondent   is   not  agreeable   to  the  same  and despite  pointing out  to him that any  observation on merits with respect to invocation of Bank Guarantee  shall come in the way while deciding Section 9 application, he has  stated at the bar that the respondent is conscious of the same and is  inviting  the   order   on  merits,  therefore,   we  are   entering  into  the  merits of  the case  whether  the  appellant can  be restrained  from  invoking   /   encashing   Bank   Guarantee   and   /   or   whether  Performance   Bank   Guarantee   issued   by   the   respondent   is  unconditional and / or irrevocable Performance Bank Guarantee.  
9.0. Heard the learned counsel for the respective parties at length.  At   the   outset,   it  is   required  to  be   noted  that  before   the   learned  Commercial Court in Section 9 application of the Arbitration and  Conciliation Act, 1996, the respondent herein ­ original applicant  has sought following reliefs:
"a. That this Hon'ble Court be pleased to order and direct the   opponent   to   return   the   Original   Bank   Guarantee   No.   0200FBG170001   dated   23.03.2017   for   a   sum   of   Rs.190,39,07,268/­ issued by the Axis Bank, Rajula Branch,   Gujarat to the applicant.
b.That this Hon'ble Court be pleased to issue an injunction /   direction / order restraining the Opponent from invoking the   Bank Guarantee No. 0200FBG170001 dated 23.03.2017 for   a sum of Rs.190,39,07,268/­ issued by the Axis Bank, Rajula   Branch, Gujarat;     
9.1. Considering the averments and allegations in the application,  the only ground on which, Section 9 application is submitted and  the reliefs are sought is that as per the negotiations which were  going, original applicant was thereafter required to   do dredging  C/FA/577/2018 JUDGMENT work   only   and   was   relieved   from   doing   marine   work   and  consequently   amount   of   Performance   Bank   Guarantee   would   be  reduced and therefore, the appellant herein ­ original opponent be  restrained from encashing the Bank Guarantee. At this stage, it is  required to be noted that on 09.01.2018, the learned Judge issued  only show cause notice and did not grant any ex­parte ad­interim  injunction by observing in para 9 as under: 
"9.This   Court   has   noticed   that   pleadings   of   the   applicant are bereft of the reasons as to why the parties   could   not agree   to addendum   to the   contract,  despite   exchanging   drafts   between   the   parties.   In   the   circumstances, it cannot be said that there is a strong   prima facie case of the applicant in respect of novatio of   the   contract.   Merely   because,   the   parties   have   negotiated   or   that   the   correspondences   has   been   exchanged between the parties, does not mean that the   contract   between   the   parties   has   been   modified.   For   novatio, all terms of contract must be agreed to between   the   parties.   Secondly,   as   to   value   of   the   performed   marine   works,  what value  would  be   ascribed  has  not   been spelt out in either of the drafts exchanged between   the   parties,   much   less,   on   oath   before   this   Court.   Therefore,   to   assume   without   hearing   the   other   side,   that the performed marine work has been pegged to a   lower value and that therefore, the value of performance   bank guarantee would stand reduced proportionately, is   not palatable on the face of it. It may be recalled that it   was   the   argument   of   learned   advocate   that   the   opponent   has   suggested   performance   security   at   Rs.59,34,00,000/­   in   its   draft   addundum   to   contract   agreement (continuous page 508) that may be taken to   appropriate   performance   security   between   the   parties.   This Court is inclined to disagree. At best, exchange of   draft could only be said to be offers and / or counter   offers. To pick out a particular clause of a counter offer,   as   binding   to   the   parties,   would   be   against   the   provisions of the Contract Act. Offer has to be accepted   as a whole. A portion of an offer cannot be said to be   binding between the parties when the other conditions   are either yet to be determined or not yet agreed upon   by the acceptor. "  
C/FA/577/2018 JUDGMENT 9.2. That   the   notice   was   made   returnable   on   16.02.2018.   It  appears   that   there   was  no  injunction   and  even   according   to   the  appellant herein Bank Guarantee in their favour was unconditional  and   irrevocable   irrespective   of   any   dispute   between   the   parties,  they are entitled to invoke / encash the Bank Guarantee and the  Bank is required to pay said the amount under the Performance  Bank Guarantee then invoked the Bank Guarantee and in fact also  encashed the same. The Axis Bank as such issued the demand draft  in favour of the appellant which also came to be deposited in the  Bank     in   favour   of   the   original   opponent.   Therefore,   as   such   it  cannot   be   said   that   the   Bank   Guarantee   was   already   invoked   /  encahsed.   Despite   the   same   and   despite   any   change   in   the  circumstances,  more   particularly,  with respect  to the  observation  made   by   the   learned   Judge   recorded   in   the   order   dated  09.02.2018, more particularly, para 9 reproduced herein above, the  learned Judge has passed the impugned order. Considering Section  13 of the Commercial Court Act, 2015 against any order passed by  the Commercial Court, appeal would be maintainable. In the facts  and circumstances of the case and considering the impugned order  and more particularly,   when as observed herein above the Bank  Guarantee was already invoked and encashed and considering the  fact   the   proposed   Bank   Guarantee   was   unconditional   and  irrevocable Bank Guarantee, interference of this Court is called for. 
10. Now,   so   far   as   original   applicant   is   entitled   to   injunction  against the appellant herein ­ original opponent   from encashing  Bank Guarantee is concerned, as such, as Section 9 application is  still pending, we would have refrained ourselves from entering into  C/FA/577/2018 JUDGMENT the said question. However, as observed above, the learned counsel  appearing on behalf of the respondent herein ­ original applicant  has   invited   the   order   despite   our   pointing   out   to   him   that   any  observations by this Court in the present appeal may affect the case  before   the   learned   Commercial   Court   in   Section   9   application.  Therefore,   we   have   no   other   alternative   but   to   deal   with   the  aforesaid   aspect   and   our   observations   and   conclusions   on   the  aforesaid are as under: 
10.1. The relevant clause of the Bank Guarantee reads as under:
"At the request of the Principal, we, Axis Bank Limited,  a   Company incorporated under the provisions of the Indian   Companies Act, 1956, carrying on its Business of Banking   Regulation   Act,   1949   and   having   registered   office   at   Trishul,   3rd   Floor,   Opposite   Smartheshwar   Temple,   Law   Garden, Ellis Bridge, Ahmedabad­ 380006 and having one   of   its   branches   at   4/B   Vasundhra   Complex   Opp.   Dakshinamurthy   School,   Waghawadi   Road,   Bhavangar,   Gujarat 364002, India (hereinafter referred to as the Bank   / The Gurantor, which expression shall unless, Repugnant   to   the   context   or   meaning   thereof,   include   its   Administrators, Successors and Assigns) hereby irrevocably   and   unconditionally   undertake   to   pay   you,   the   Beneficiary / Employer, any sum or sums not exceeding in   total   the   amount   of   INR   190,39,07,268.00   (The   guaranteed   amount   say:   Indian   Rupees   One   Hundred   Ninety   Crore   Thirty   Nine   Lacs   Seven   Thousand   Two   Hundred Sixty Eight only) upon receipt by us of your first   written  demand and  your  written statement stating  that   the principal is in breach of its obligations under the EPC   Contract dated 15.11.2016 and we declare that any such   demand made on us by you shall be conclusive and binding   on us, notwithstanding and difference or dispute between   employer and the principal."
10.2. Considering the aforesaid, it can be said that the Performance  Bank Guarantee is unconditional and irrevocable and Axis Bank is  bound to make payment under the Performance Bank Guarantee to  C/FA/577/2018 JUDGMENT the   appellant   on   demand   which   shall   be   conclusive,  notwithstanding  any difference  or  dispute  between  the  appellant  and the respondent. As per the catena of decisions of this Court in  the case of Hindustan Dorr Oliver Limited (supra, once the Bank  Guarantee   /   Performance   Bank   Guarantee   is   unconditional   and  irrevocable   irrespective   of   dispute   between   the   parties   to   the  contract,  on   demand  in   whose   favour   Bank  Guarantee  is   issued,  entitled to encash / invoke the Bank Guarantee unless there are  specific averments and allegations of fraud and that too at the time  of executing the Bank Guarantee and at the time of entering into  the contract. 
10.3. In   the   case   of  Vintec   Electronics   Private   Limited  [Supra],   while   discussing   and   considering   the   law   on   the  invocation   of   the   bank   guarantee,   in   para   11   and   12,   the  Hon'ble Supreme Court has observed and held as under :­
11.   The   law   relating   to   invocation   of   bank  guarantees is by now well settled by a catena of  decisions   of   this   Court.   The   bank   guarantees  which   provided   that   they   are   payable   by   the  guarantor on demand is considered to be an un­ conditional bank guarantee. When in the course of  commercial   dealings,   unconditional   guarantees  have   been   given   or   accepted   the   beneficiary   is  entitled to realize such a bank guarantee in terms  thereof   irrespective   of   any   pending   disputes.   In  U.P.   State   Sugar   Corporation   v.   Sumac   International   Ltd,   [1997]   1   SCC   568,   this   Court  observed that :
"12.   The   law   relating   to   invocation   of   such  bank guarantees is by now well settled. When  in   the   course   of   commercial   dealings   an  unconditional   bank   guarantee   is   given   or  accepted, the beneficiary is entitled to realize  such   a   bank   guarantee   in   terms   thereof  C/FA/577/2018 JUDGMENT irrespective of any pending disputes. The bank  giving such a guarantee is bound to honour it  as   per   its   terms   irrespective   of   any   dispute  raised   by   its   customer.   The   very   purpose   of  giving such a bank guarantee would otherwise  be defeated. The Courts should, therefore, be  slow in granting an injunction to restrain the  realization   of   such   a   bank   guarantee.   The  Courts have carved out only two exceptions. A  fraud   in   connection   with   such   a   bank  guarantee would vitiate the very foundation of  such a bank guarantee. Hence if there is such  a fraud of which the beneficiary seeks to take  advantage,   he   can   be   restrained   from   doing  so.   The   second   exception   relates   to   cases  where   allowing   the   encashment   of   an  unconditional bank guarantee would result in  irretrievable   harm   or   injustice   to   one   of   the  parties   concerned.   Since   in   most   cases  payment   of   money   under   such   a   bank  guarantee   would   adversely   affect   the   bank  and   its   customer   at   whose   instance   the  guarantee   is   given,   the   harm   or   injustice  contemplated under this head must be of such  an   exceptional   and   irretrievable   nature   as  would override the terms of the guarantee and  the   adverse   effect   of   such   an   injunction   on  commercial dealings in the country. The two  grounds are not necessarily connected, though  both may coexist in some cases."
10.4. It   is   equally   well   settled   in   law   that   bank   guarantee   is   an  independent   contract   between   bank   and   the   beneficiary   thereof.  The bank is always obliged to honour its guarantee as long as it is  an   unconditional   and   irrevocable   one.   The   dispute   between   the  beneficiary and the party at whose instance the bank has given the  guarantee is immaterial and of no consequence. In BSES Limited v.   Fenner India Ltd. & Anr, [2006] 2 SCC 728, this Court held:
"10.   There   are,   however,   two   exceptions   to  C/FA/577/2018 JUDGMENT this   Rule.   The   first   is   when   there   is   a   clear  fraud   of   which   the   Bank   has   notice   and   a  fraud of the beneficiary from which it seeks to  benefit.   The   fraud   must   be   of   an   egregious  nature   as   to   vitiate   the   entire   underlying  transaction.   The   second   exception   to   the  general rule of non­intervention is when there  are   special   equities   in   favour   of   injunction,  such   as   when   irretrievable   injury   or  irretrievable injustice would occur if such an  injunction were not granted. The general rule  and   its   exceptions   has   been   reiterated   in   so  many judgments of this Court, viz., U.P State  Sugar Corpn. v. Sumac International Limited  [1997]   1   SCC   568;   State   of   Maharashtra   v.  National Construction Co. [1996] 1 SCC 735;  United   Commercial   Bank   v.   Bank   of   India  [1981] 2 SCC 766 and Centax [India] Limited  v. Vinmar Impex Inc. [1986] 4 SCC 136, that  in   U.P.   State   Sugar   Corpn.   v.   Sumac  International   Ltd.   (1997)   1   SCC   568  (hereinafter   U.P.   State   Sugar   Corpn.)   this  Court,   correctly   declare   that   the   law   was  'settled'.
10.5. In  Himadri   Chemicals   Industries   Ltd.   v.   Coal   Tar   Refining   Company, [2007] 8 SCC 110, this Court summarized the principles  for   grant   of   refusal   to   grant   of   injunction   to   restrain   the  enforcement   of   a   bank   guarantee   or   a   letter   of   credit   in   the  following manner:
14.. ...(i) While dealing with an application for   injunction in the course of commercial dealings,   and when an unconditional bank guarantee or   letter   of   credit   is   given   or   accepted,   the   beneficiary   is   entitled   to   realize   such   a   Bank   Guarantee or a Letter of Credit in terms thereof   irrespective of any pending disputes relating to   the terms of the contract.
(ii) The Bank giving such guarantee is bound to   honour   it   as   per   its   terms   irrespective   of   any   C/FA/577/2018 JUDGMENT dispute raised by its customer.
(iii) The Courts should be slow in granting an   order of injunction to restrain the realization of  a bank guarantee or a Letter of Credit.
(iv) Since a Bank Guarantee or a Letter of Credit is   an   independent   and   a   separate   contract   and   is  absolute   in   nature,   the   existence   of   any   dispute   between the parties to the contract is not a ground   for   issuing   an   order   of   injunction   to   restrain   enforcement   of   Bank   Guarantees   or   Letters   of   Credit.
v. Fraud of an egregious nature which would vitiate the very foundation of such a Bank Guarantee or Letter of Credit and the beneficiary seeks to take advantage of the situation.
vi. Allowing encashment of an unconditional Bank Guarantee or a Letter of Credit would result in irretrievable harm or injustice to one of the parties concerned.
10.6.  In Mahatama Gandhi Sahakra Sakkare Karkhane v. National  Heavy Engg. Co­op. Ltd, [2007] 6 SCC 470, this Court observed:
If   the   bank   guarantee   furnished   is   an  unconditional   and   irrevocable   one,   it   is   not  open   to   the   bank   to   raise   any   objection  whatsoever   to   pay   the   amounts   under   the  guarantee.   The   person   in   whose   favour   the  guarantee is furnished by the bank cannot be  prevented   by   way   of   an   injunction   from  enforcing   the   guarantee   on   the   pretext   that  the   condition   for   enforcing   the   bank  guarantee in terms of the agreement entered  between   the   parties   has   not   been   fulfilled.  Such   a   course   is   impermissible.   The   seller  cannot raise the dispute of whatsoever nature  and prevent the purchaser from enforcing the  bank   guarantee   by   way   of   injunction   except  on   the   ground   of   fraud   and   irretrievable  injury.
What is relevant are the terms incorporated in  the   guarantee   executed   by   the   bank.   On  careful analysis of the terms and conditions of  C/FA/577/2018 JUDGMENT the guarantee in the present case, it is found  that   the   guarantee   is   an   unconditional   one.  The respondent, therefore, cannot be allowed  to raise any dispute and prevent the appellant  from encashing the bank guarantee. The mere  fact   that   the   bank   guarantee   refers   to   the  principal agreement without referring to any  specific clause in the preamble of the deed of  guarantee   does   not   make   the   guarantee  furnished by the bank to be a conditional one.  (Para 22 and 28) [Emphasis supplied]
11. Similar view has been taken by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in  the   case   of   Dwarikesh   Sugar   Industries   Ltd   (supra),   Singh  Consultants and Engineers Pvt. Ltd (supra), Fenner India Ltd & Anr  (supra),   M.s.   Adani   Agri   Fresh   Ltd   (supra),   Ansal   Engineering  Projects Ltd (supra) and Ruby State Corporation (Agency) & Anr  (supra). Applying the law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court  as   well   as   decision   of   this   Court   in   the   case   of   Hindustan   Dorr  Oliver Limited (supra) (which is reported to have been confirmed  by   the   Hon'ble   Supreme   Court)   to   the   facts   of   the   case   and  considering the relevant clause of the Bank Guarantee reproduced  herein above and as the Performance Bank Guarantee is irrevocable  and unconditional irrespective of the dispute between the parties to  the   contract,   the   appellant   herein   shall   be   entitled   to   invoke   /  encash the Bank Guarantee.
12. Now,   so   far   as   submission   on   behalf   of   the   opponent   that  injunction sought is not against the Bank but against one of the  contracting   party   and   therefore,   the   aforesaid   decisions   of   the  Hon'ble Supreme Court shall be applicable to the facts of the case  on hand are concerned, the same has no substance. The question  C/FA/577/2018 JUDGMENT which   is   required   to   be   considered   is   whether   a   party   to   the  contract in whose favour Bank Guarantee has been issued can be  restrained   from   encashing   /   invoking   the   Bank   Guarantee   when  such   Bank   Guarantee   in   their   favour   is   unconditional   and  irrevocable ? If the submission on behalf of the respondent herein ­  original   applicant   is   accepted,   in   that   case,   to   get   out   of   the  decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court referred to herein above a  party   to   the   contract   despite   the   fact   that   Bank   Guarantee   is  unconditional and irrevocable may pray injunction only against one  of the contracting party and not against the Bank. By changing the  form   of   injunction,   the   applicant   cannot   get   injunction   which  otherwise   applicant   is   not   entitled   to   considering   the   various  decisions   of   the   Hon'ble   Supreme   Court,   more   particularly,  decisions referred to herein above. 
13. Now, so far as the submission on behalf of the opponent that  there   are   serious   dispute   between   the   parties   and   in   fact   the  negotiations   were   going   on   and   in   fact   the   appellant   herein   ­  original opponent agreed to extend cut off date for doing dredging  work   and  relieved  the   original   applicant   from   doing  any   further  marine work and therefore, the original opponent was not justified  in invoking Bank Guarantee of the full amount is concerned, at the  outset,     it   is   required   to   be   noted   that   all   these   questions   are  required to be considered in the arbitration proceedings, if at all,  matters   are   referred   to   arbitration.   As   observed   herein   above,  Performance Bank Guarantee is unconditional and irrevocable, the  appellant   herein   ­   original   opponent   in   whose   favour   Bank  Guarantee   is   issued,   is   entitled   to   invoke   /   encash   the   same   on  C/FA/577/2018 JUDGMENT demand   irrespective   of   any   dispute   between   the   parties.   In   fact,  there   are   number   of   contentious   issues,   more   particularly,   with  respect to novatio of contract etc. are required to be considered,  which can be considered only in appropriate proceedings and not  in a Section 9 application where injunction is sought against the  invocation / revocation of Bank Guarantee.
14. Now, so far as submission on behalf of the opponent herein­  original applicant that the appellant has fraudulently invoked the  Bank Guarantee and therefore, there is an element of fraud and  therefore, none of the aforesaid decisions shall be applicable to the  facts   of   the   case   on   hand   is   concerned,   the   aforesaid   has   no  substance. At the outset, it is required to be noted that in Section 9  application as such there are no allegation whatsoever about the  fraud. As per the catena of decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court,  there shall be a specific averment and allegation and mere even  alleging that there is fraud, is not sufficient. Learned counsel for  the opponent is unable to so any allegation and the averment in  Section   9   application   with   respect   to   fraud.   Under   the  circumstances, in absence of any specific averment and allegation  of   fraud  in  Section   9  application,   the  appellant   herein  ­  original  opponent cannot be injuncted and / or restrained from encashing  unconditional   and   irrevocable   Bank   Guarantee.   It   is   the   case   on  behalf   of   the   respondent   ­  original   applicant   (while   making  oral  submission) that during the negotiation, the appellant fraudulently  invoked   the   Bank   Guarantee   and   therefore,   there   is   element   of  fraud is concerned, the same cannot be accepted. It appears that  allegations of fraud are required to be considered at the time when  C/FA/577/2018 JUDGMENT Bank Guarantee was furnished and contract was executed between  the   parties.   Merely   because,   subsequently   may   be   during   the  negotiations one of the party to the contract in whose favour Bank  Guarantee   is   unconditional   and   irrevocable   Bank   Guarantee   is  issued, is entitled to invoke  and encash the Bank Guarantee, came  cannot be said to be suffering from vice of fraud, for which, it may  be restrained from encashing and invoking Bank Guarantee. Under  the circumstances, as such appellant herein original opponent shall  be entitled to invoke/ encash the Bank Guarantee which has such is  already invoked / encahsed and even demand draft issued by the  Axis Bank deposited in the Bank account of the appellant. Under  the   circumstances,   the   impugned   order   dated   17.02.2018,   by  which, the learned Commercial Court has ordered that   in case if  the said draft has not so far been encashed, thereby crediting the  amount thereunder to the account of the opponent, the same may  not be processed further. In case, however, the draft has already  been encashed, by crediting the account, the said amount be kept  suspended   i.e. it may not be permitted to be withdrawn by the  opponent for the time being deserves to be  quashed and set aside.  Again, at the cost of repetition, it is observed that in the facts and  circumstances of the case, more particularly, when Bank Guarantee  is already invoked and encashed and demand   draft issued by the  Axis   Bank   deposited   in   the   Bank   account   of   the   appellant,   the  appellant is ready and willing to keep the said amount aside, the  learned   counsel   appearing   on   behalf   of   the   respondent   herein­  original applicant under the instructions from the respondent is not  agreed to the same and has invited the present order despite being  pointed out that observation in the present order may affect their  C/FA/577/2018 JUDGMENT Section 9 application. 
15.  In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, the  impugned further order passed by the learned Judge, Commercial  Court,   Rajkot   passed   below   Exh.1   in   Civil   Miscellaneous  Application No.3 of 2018 dated 17.02.2018, by which, the learned  Judge has ordered that in case if the said draft has not so far been  encashed, thereby crediting the amount thereunder to the account  of the opponent, the same may not be processed further. In case,  however,   the   draft   has   already   been   encashed,   by   crediting   the  account,  the  said amount  be  kept  suspended    i.e. it  may  not  be  permitted to be withdrawn by the opponent for the time being, is  hereby   quashed   and   set   aside.   Present   Appeal   is   allowed   to   the  aforesaid extent. No costs.
In   view   of   allowing   of   the   First   Appeal,   Civil   Application  stands disposed of.
sd/ (M.R. SHAH, J.)  sd/­­ (A.Y. KOGJE, J.) FURTHER ORDER After the judgment was pronounced in the first season, in the  second season, Shri Thakore,  learned counsel for the respondent  herein­ applicant herein has requested to stay the implementation,  operation   and   execution   of   the   present   order   and   continue   the  impugned order passed by the learned Commercial Court so as to  C/FA/577/2018 JUDGMENT enable the original applicant to challenge the present order before  the   Hon'ble   Supreme   Court.   However,   considering   the   facts   and  circumstances of the case, more particularly, when we have held  that the impugned order passed by the learned Commercial Court  is   not   sustainable   and   we   have   held   that   the   Performance   Bank  Guarantee   furnished   by   the   original   applicant   was   unconditional  and irrevocable  and therefore,  the original  defendant ­ appellant  herein cannot be injuncted and / or restrained from invoking and /  or encashing the Performance Bank Guarantee and considering the  fact that as such the Performance Bank Guarantee in question is  already invoked and encashed and even the demand draft issued by  the   Axis   Bank   has   been   deposited   in   the   Bank   Account   of   the  appellant herein and as reported even the appellant is likely to face  penal consequences by the GMB, prayer is rejected.  
sd/­ (M.R. SHAH, J.)  sd/­ (A.Y. KOGJE, J.)  KAUSHIK J. RATHOD