Take notes as you read a judgment using our Virtual Legal Assistant and get email alerts whenever a new judgment matches your query (Query Alert Service). Try out our Premium Member Services -- Sign up today and get free trial for one month.
Gujarat High Court
Whether Reporters Of Local Papers May Be ... vs Simplex Infrastructure Limited on 9 June, 2017
Bench: M.R. Shah, B.N. Karia
                   C/FA/618/2017                                                    CAV JUDGMENT



                       IN THE HIGH COURT OF GUJARAT AT AHMEDABAD

                                     FIRST APPEAL  NO. 618 of 2017
                                                With 
                                     FIRST APPEAL NO. 778 of 2017
          
         FOR APPROVAL AND SIGNATURE: 

         HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE M.R. SHAH                                 Sd/­
         and
         HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE B.N. KARIA                                Sd/­
         =========================================
         1      Whether Reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see   Yes
                the judgment ?

         2      To be referred to the Reporter or not ?                                           Yes

         3      Whether their Lordships wish to see the fair copy of the                          No
                judgment ?

         4      Whether this case involves a substantial question of law as                       No
                to   the   interpretation  of   the   Constitution  of   India  or   any 
                order made thereunder ?

         =====[========================================
             GUJARAT MINERAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION LTD....Appellant(s)
                                      Versus
                    SIMPLEX INFRASTRUCTURE LIMITED....Defendant(s)
         =============================================
         Appearance:
         FIRST APPEAL No.618 of 2017
         MR. S.N. SOPARKAR, LD. SR ADV WITH GURSHARAN H  VIRK, ADVOCATE for 
         the Appellant(s) No. 1
         MR. PERCY C KAVINA, LD. SR ADV WITH MS. GARIMA MALHOTRA WITH 
         MR.BHASH H MANKAD, CAVEATOR for the Defendant(s) No. 1

         FIRST APPEAL No.778 of 2017

         MR. PERCY C KAVINA, LD. SR ADV WITH MS. GARIMA MALHOTRA WITH 
         MR.BHASH H MANKAD for the appellant 
         MR. S.N. SOPARKAR, LD. SR ADV WITH GURSHARAN H VIRK, ADVOCATE for 
         the defendant 
         =============================================
           CORAM: HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE M.R. SHAH
                  and
                  HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE B.N. KARIA
                               Date :  09 /06/2017
                                CAV JUDGMENT
HC-NIC Page 1 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017   (PER : HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE M.R. SHAH) 1.0. As both these appeals arise out of the impugned judgment  and  order   passed by   the   learned  Commercial   Court,   Ahmedabad  passed   in   Commercial   Civil   Miscellaneous   Application   No.   52   of  2016, one preferred by the original applicant and another by the  original respondent, both these appeals are decided and disposed  of together by this common judgment and order. 
2.0. Feeling  aggrieved  and  dissatisfied  with  the   impugned  judgment   and   order   passed   by   the   learned   Commercial   Court,  Ahmedabad passed in  Commercial Civil Miscellaneous Application  No. 52 of 2016, passed under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act, the  original   respondent   ­   Gujarat   Mineral   Development   Corporation  Limited   (hereinafter   referred   to   as   "the   GMDC")   has   preferred  present First Appeal No. 618 of 2017 under Section 13(1) of the  Commercial Court Act r/w Section 37(1)(c) of the Arbitration and  Conciliation Act, 1996 (hereinafter referred to as "Arbitration Act") [. 
2.1.   Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned  judgment   and   order   passed   by   the   learned   Commercial   Court,  Ahmedabad passed in  Commercial Civil Miscellaneous Application  No. 52 of 2016, passed under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act, the  original   applicant   ­   Simplex   Infrastructure   Limited   (hereinafter  referred to as "SIL") has preferred present First Appeal No. 778 of  HC-NIC Page 2 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 2017 under Section 13(1) of the Commercial Court Act r/w Section  37(1)(c) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. 
3.0. The   facts   leading   to   the   present   First   Appeals   in  nutshell are as under:
3.1. That   the   GMDC   invited   and   issued   tender   notice   for  execution of general, civil and architectural work for 2 x 125 MW  Akrimota Thermal Power Project. That the said contract came to be  awarded to the original applicant ­ SIL vide letter of intent dated  27.11.2001. That the work order came to be issued by the GMDC  on dated 07.02.2002. That total estimated value of the work was  Rs.5,80,71,292/­ with firm price and no escalation clause. That as  per the clause 4.0 of the work order / contract time was essence of  the   contract   and   the   entire   work   was   required   to   be   completed  within 22 months from the date of issuance of letter of intent. It  also further provided tow months grace period and as per the said  clause, the accepted rates will be valid for a further period of two  months   grace   period.   Since   the   letter   of   intent   was   issued   on  27.11.2001,   the   work   was   to   be   completed   by   27.11.2003  including   two   months'   grace   period.   That   according   to   the   SIL,  there was a delay on the part of the GMDC in releasing drawing  works and due to non providing the fronts / drawings and details  of   drawings   by   the   GMDC   from   the   very   beginning,   the  construction could not be completed within the time prescribed in  the work order. According to the SIL, prior to schedule completion  date,   SIL   wrote   a   letter   dated   23.10.2003   giving   notice   of   its  HC-NIC Page 3 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 intention   to   claim   compensation   for   the   work   which   may   be  executed beyond the contract period in the form of escalation and  extra costs and   pursuant thereto, SIL raised seven periodical bills  pertaining to the escalation and extra costs. According to the SIL,  after a period of one year of the schedule date of completion, the  work order came to be amended by the GMDC vide its letter dated  24.11.2004 and the value of the work almost reached double from  rs. 5,80,71,292/­ to Rs. 10,78,21,292/­. According to the SIL, vide  its   reply   dated   24.11.2004     to   the   GMDC,   SIL   expressed   its  intention   with   regard   to   the   conditions   stipulated   in   the  amendment   that   the   rates   would   be   firmed   and   no   escalation  would be allowed, which was not acceptable to the SIL as it was  practically impossible to execute the work at the rate determined  prior   thereto.   That   thereafter,   the   SIL   completed   the   work   on  30.09.2006. Since the request of the SIL seeking the payment of  escalation   and over  stay were  not  considered by  the GMDC  and  GMDC failed to make payment towards escalation and additional  costs,   the   dispute   arose   between   the   parties   and   therefore,   SIL  invoked   the   arbitration.   The   Arbitral   Tribunal   came   to   be  constituted   consisting   of   sole   Arbitrator.   The   SIL   submitted   the  statement of claim before the Arbitrator as under:
(1)Claim for an amount of Rs.6,87,014/ on account of work done  as mentioned in the 28th RA/final bill;
(2) Claim for an amount of Rs.1,28,30,519/on account of  escalation;
(3)   Claim   for   an   amount   of   Rs.2,01,16,402/towards   extra   costs  incurred due to overstay;
HC-NIC Page 4 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 (4) Claim for an amount of Rs.76,36,090.52 towards service tax; (5) Claim for an amount of Rs.10,00,000/towards damages for  mental agony;
(6)   Claim   for   an   amount   of   Rs.20,00,000/towards   damages   on  account of loss of reputation;
(7) Claim for an amount of Rs.7,50,000/towards costs of  arbitration; and (8) Claim for interest on the claim amount at the rate of 18% p.a.  from the due date till the date of realization.
3.2. That   the   learned   Tribunal   disallowed   the   claim   nos.  3,4,5,6 and 7 i.e. claim with respect to escalation and extra costs;  damages   towards   mental   agony;   loss   of   reputation   and   cost   of  arbitration. 
3.3. Feeling   aggrieved   and   dissatisfied   with   the   award  passed   by   the   learned   Arbitrator   in   disallowing   the   claim   nos.  3,4,5,6   and   7,   SIL   submitted   the   application   before   the   learned  District Court under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act being Civil  Miscellaneous Appeal No. 1018 of 2012. That on establishment of  Commercial   Court   at   Ahmedabad   under   the   provisions   of  Commercial Court Act, the said Section 34 application came to be  transferred   to   the   Commercial   Court,   which   was   numbered   as  Commercial Civil Miscellaneous Application No. 52 of 2016. That  the SIL claimed following reliefs in the application under Section  34 of the Act;
"(a) modify/set aside the impugned award dated  HC-NIC Page 5 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 December 9, 2011 to the extent it relates to the   rejection   of   the   applicant's   claims   for   escalation   and extra costs incurred on account of overstay at   the Project as contained in paragraphs 13 to 27   and the last paragraph of the Award;
(b)   allow   the   Applicant's   aforesaid   claims   for   escalation and extra costs incurred on account of   overstay at the Project on the basis of the materials   on record along with interest thereon at the rate of   12%   p.a.   from   the   due   date   till   the   date   of   realization as determined by the Ld. Arbitrator in  paragraph 32 of the Award;
OR remit   the   matter   to   a   different   arbitrator   with   experience   in   construction   matters   for   fresh  adjudication   of   the   Applicant's   claims   for  escalation and extra costs incurred on account of   overstay at the Project; "
3.4. That   the   said   Commercial   Miscellaneous   Application  was vehemently opposed by GMDC. 
3.5. That   by   impugned   judgment   and   order   the   learned  Judge   Commercial   Court,   Ahmedabad   has   partly   allowed   the  Section 34 application and has quashed and set aside the award  declared by the learned Arbitrator with respect to the claim no.3  i.e. claim for escalation and has allowed the entire claim no.3 as  per the Claim Statement lodged before the learned Sole Arbitrator. Rest of the award declared by the learned Arbitrator in disallowing  the claim nos. 4,5,6 and 7 came to be confirmed by the learned  Judge, Commercial Court, Ahmedabad. 
3.6. Feeling  aggrieved  and  dissatisfied  with  the   impugned  judgment   and   order   passed   by   the   learned   Commercial   Court,  Ahmedabad   in   so   far   as   allowing   the   claim   no.3   i.e.   claim   for  HC-NIC Page 6 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 escalation, the original opponent GMDC has preferred present First  Appeal No.618 of 2017.
3.7. Feeling  aggrieved  and  dissatisfied  with  the   impugned  judgment   and   order   passed   by   the   learned   Commercial   Court,  Ahmedabad in so far as confirming rest of the award passed by the  learned Arbitrator disallowing the claim nos. 4, 5, 6 and 7, the SIL  has preferred present First Appeal No.778 of 2017. 
4.0. Shri   S.N.Soparkar,   learned   Senior   Advocate   has  appeared on behalf of the original opponent­ GMDC and Shri Percy  Kavina, learned Senior Advocate has appeared on behalf of the SIL  in respective appeals. 
First Appeal No. 618 of 2017 5.0. Shri   S.N.   Soparkar,   learned   counsel   appearing   on  behalf of the GMDC has vehemently submitted that in the facts and  circumstances   of   the   case   the   learned   Commercial   Court   has  materially erred in modifying the award declared by the learned  sole   Arbitrator   and   in   allowing   the   claim   no.3   i.e.   claim   with  respect   to   escalation,   which   was   disallowed   by   the   learned  Arbitrator and that too, in exercise of powers under Section 34 of  the Arbitration Act. 
5.1. It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Soparkar,   learned  counsel for the GMDC that while passing the impugned judgment  and order  insofar as allowing the claim no.3 which was disallowed  by   the   learned   Arbitrator,   the   learned   Commercial   Court   has  exceeded in its jurisdiction under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act. 
HC-NIC Page 7 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 5.2.   It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Soparkar,   learned  counsel for the GMDC that though the Arbitrator had nowhere held  GMDC solely responsible for delay, the learned Commercial Court  has materially erred in holding that   such was the finding of the  Arbitrator.
5.3. It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Soparkar,   learned  counsel for the GMDC that while passing the impugned judgment  and order, the learned Commercial Court has substituted its own  view for an entirely possible view of the Arbitrator.
5.4.   It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Soparkar,   learned  counsel   for   the   GMDC   that   even   learned   Commercial   Court   has  substituted   the   standard   of   evidence   and   has   re­appreciated   the  evidence which is not permissible while considering the application  under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act. 
5.5.   It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Soparkar,   learned  counsel for the GMDC that as such learned Commercial Court has  passed the impugned order and has exercised the jurisdiction as if  learned Commercial Court was exercising the appellate jurisdiction  over  the  award  declared  by  the  learned Arbitrator.     It  is  further  submitted by Shri Soparkar, leaned counsel for the GMDC that as  per the catena of decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court as well as  this   Court,   in   exercise   of   powers   under   Section   34   of   the  Arbitration Act is not siting as an Appellate Court over the award. 
5.6.  It is further submitted by Shri Soparkar, learned counsel for  the GMDC that learned Commercial Court has as such allowed the  HC-NIC Page 8 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 claim no.3 and has decided the matter on equity and fairness and  has ignored the contract altogether. 
5.7.   It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Soparkar,   learned  counsel for the GMDC that the learned Commercial Court has as  such caused a novation of contract at the stage of adjudication of  disputes, which is not permissible. 
5.8.   It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Soparkar,   learned  counsel   for   the   GMDC   that   learned   Commercial   Court   has  materially erred in not properly appreciating the fact that as per the  contract between the parties and as per the terms and conditions of  the work order, there was no provision for escalation even for the  period   beyond   the   time   prescribed   under   the   contract,   more  particularly,   with   respect   to   the   extended   period   of   time.     It   is  further submitted by Shri Soparkar, learned counsel for the GMDC  that therefore, though the escalation was alien to the contract, the  learned Commercial Court has awarded   escalation in violation of  contractual provisions.
5.9.   It   is   further   submitted   by   Shri   Soparkar,   learned  counsel   for   the   GMDC   that   though   in   the   award   learned   sole  Arbitrator   though   not   given   any   findings   that   the   delay   was  attributable to GMDC and though even Simplex did not make such  allegation   in   its   correspondence,   learned   Commercial   Court   has  materially   erred   in   coming   to   the   conclusion   that   delay   was  attributable to the GMDC. 
5.10. It   is   vehemently   submitted   by   Shri   Soparkar,   learned  HC-NIC Page 9 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 counsel for the GMDC that as per the catena of decisions of the  Hon'ble Supreme Court as well as this Court the scope of judicial  intervention while considering the application under Section 34 of  the Arbitration Act is very narrow and the merits, factual findings,  reasonings, consideration of evidence and the final view taken by  the learned Arbitrator are not required to be interfered with by the  Court in exercise of powers under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act. 
5.11.   It is vehemently submitted by Shri Soparkar, learned  counsel  for  the  GMDC   that   Section   37  of  the   Act   is  co­terminus  with   the  narrow   scope   and  limited  expanse   of  the   power  of  the  Commercial Court under Section 34 of the Act. 
5.12.   It is vehemently submitted by Shri Soparkar, learned  counsel   for   the   GMDC   that   in   the   present   case   though   not  permissible   and   while   allowing   the   claim   no.3   with   respect   to  escalation,   the   learned   Commercial   Court   has   re­appreciated   the  evidence and as such has passed an order on equity and fairness  ignoring the contractual provisions. 
5.13.   Shri   Soparkar,   learned   counsel   for   the   GMDC   has  heavily relied upon the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in  the   case   of  Associate   Builders   v.   Delhi   Development   Authority,  reported in (2015) 3 SCC 49 in support his elaborate submissions  with   respect   to   scope   and   ambit   of   judicial   intervention   by   the  Court,   while   exercising   the   powers   under   Section   34   of   the  Arbitration Act.  Shri Soparkar, learned Counsel for the GMDC has  also relied upon the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the  case of NHAI v. ITD Cementation India Ltd. reported in (2015) 14  HC-NIC Page 10 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 SCC 21  as well as another decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court  in   the   case   of  Swan   Gold   Mining   Ltd.   v.Hindustan   Copper   Ltd.  reported in (2015) 5 SCC 739. He has also relied upon the decision  of the Division Bench of the Delhi High Court in the case of  Puri  Construction   Pvt.   Ltd.   &   Ors.   v.   Larsen   &   Toubro   Ltd.   &   Anr.  rendered in FAO (OS) 21/2009. 
5.14.   It is vehemently submitted by Shri Soparkar, learned  counsel   for   the   GMDC   that   as   the   view   taken   by   the   learned  Arbitrator was correct view and even if the Commercial Court was  of the opinion that the another view is possible, in that case also,  learned Commercial Court is not justified in rigors in the finding of  the award declared by the learned Arbitrator with respect to the  claim no.3 ­ claim for escalation. 
5.15.   It is vehemently submitted by Shri Soparkar, learned  counsel   for   the   GMDC   that   the   learned   Commercial   Court   has  materially erred in allowing the claim for escalation by treating the  computation   rendered   by   SIL   as   a   valid   computation,   without  either calling upon GMDC to rebut the computation, or verifying  the   authenticity   of   the   claim   or   manner   of   computation,   or  appreciating   the   evidence   based   on   which   the   claim   appears   to  have   been   allowed.   It   is   submitted   that,   therefore,   the   learned  Commercial   Court   has   erred   in   summarily   granting   a   claim   and  reversing the reasoned view of the Arbitrator.
5.16.   It is vehemently submitted by Shri Soparkar, learned  counsel for the GMDC that while allowing the escalation claim, the  learned   Commercial   Court   has   not   properly   appreciated   the  HC-NIC Page 11 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 following facts and events.
(1). Prior issuance of the Work Order by GMDC to Simplex, the  issue of escalation already stood decided;
(2). Simplex   had,   originally,   vide   its   letter   dated   21.07.2001  submitted its bid with an escalation clause for work done beyond  the contractual date of completion;
(3). GMDC, vide its letter dated 10.08.2001, categorically rejected  any provision for escalation and requested Simplex to submit a bid  with firm rates without escalation;
(4). Simplex   had,   therefore,   by   its   letter   dated   18.08.2001,  withdrawn   its   deviation   in   respect   of   escalation   and   had   clearly  submitted to firm contractual rates;
(5). Therefore, the work order dated 07.02.2002 was awarded to  Simplex.  Clause  3  of the Work  Order  (pg.  19) clearly  mandated  that   the   prices   under   the   contract   were   firm   and   no   escalation  would be allowed. It was also clarified that the rates would remain  firm (without escalation) without any upper ceiling limit;
(6). The letters dated 23.10.2003 (pg. 25) and 17.08.2004 (pg. 
30)   addressed   by   Simplex   demanded   escalation.   However,   it   is  pertinent to note that Simplex has never alleged any delay on part  of   GMDC.   These   letters,   therefore,   use   the   phrase   "...due   to  different reasons not attributable to us...". However, no evidence is  adduced nor correspondence addressed by Simplex to contend that  any delay was attributable to GMDC;
HC-NIC Page 12 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 (7). Even during course  of argument before  this Hon'ble  Court,  Simplex   does   not   contend   that   delay   was   ONLY   attributable   to  GMDC. Therefore, at best, the case of Simplex is that delay was  allegedly   attributable   to   both   parties.   However,   there   is   no  evidence in support of the said baseless contention of Simplex;
(8). By its letter dated 24.11.2004 (pg. 31) and 22.02.2007 (pg. 
38), GMDC categorically rejected Simplex's demand for escalation  and clearly, in no uncertain terms, stated that the rates under the  contract would remain firm;
(9). Even   otherwise,   neither   the   Hon'ble   Arbitrator   nor   the  Hon'ble   Commercial   Court   have   engaged   into   the   exercise   of  computing the claims or verifying their authenticity or arithmetic  accuracy;
(10) Inasmuch   as   issue   no.   1   (liquidated   damages   of   Rs.  5,39,106/­)   is   concerned,   Simplex   has   attempted   to   utilise   the  Arbitrator's   direction   to   GMDC   to   refund   the   said   amount   in   its  favour. However, it is pertinent to note that the issue of refund of  liquidated damages (LD) has no bearing on the other issues for the  following reasons:
(10.1). The Arbitrator did not reject GMDC's claim for LD on  merits.
(10.2). It was only on account of GMDC's procedural lapse in  not issuing a notice upon Simplex (as is the statutory requirement  under  section   74   read  with  section  55  of  the  Contract  Act)   that  GMDC was required to refund the amount so deducted by GMDC  HC-NIC Page 13 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 as per the prescriptions under the Contract.
5.17.   Shri   Soparkar,   learned   counsel   for   the   GMDC   has  further submitted that even otherwise while exercising the powers  under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act learned Commercial Court  was only empowered to set aside the award and could not have  modified the award. 
In support of his above submissions, Shri Soparkar, learned  counsel for the GMDC has heavily relied upon the decision of the  Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of McDermott International Inc.  v.Burn Standard Co. Ltd., (2006) 11 SCC 181 as well as decision of  the Bombay High Court in the case of  Pushpa P. Mulchandani &  Ors. v. Admiral Radhakrishan Tahiliani & Ors.  rendered in Appeal  No.   981/2001   dated   4.10.2007;   decision   of   the   Allahabad   High  Court in the case of U.P. State Handloom Corporation v. Asha Lata  Talwar & Anr. reported in (2009) 76 ALR 233 as well as decision of  the Delhi High Court in the case of  Puri Construction Pvt. Ltd. &  Ors. v. Larsen & Toubro Ltd. & Anr. rendered in FAO (OS) 21/2009  dated 30.04.2015. 
5.18.   It is vehemently submitted by Shri Soparkar, learned  counsel   for   the   GMDC   that   neither  the   Arbitrator   nor   the  Commercial Court have engaged into the exercise of computation  of the claim for escalation.
5.19. It   is   submitted   that   the   basis   of   escalation   claim   is  neither certified by GMDC, nor verified by any judicial forum. That  the   manner   of   computation   or   the   content   and   basis   of   the  HC-NIC Page 14 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 calculation   has   never   been   subjected   to   judicial   scrutiny,   and  rightly so, since the contract did not provide for escalation in the  first place. It is submitted that therefore, learned Commercial Court  has erred in allowing a claim that was completely unverified.
5.20. It is vehemently submitted by Shri Soparkar, learned  counsel   for   the   GMDC   that   the   learned   Arbitrator   arrived   at   a  conclusion   that   since   SIL   did   not   become   eligible   to   claim  escalation or extra­cost in the first place,  inter alia, on account of  lack   of   evidence   to   establish   its   said   claims,   the   question   of  engaging   into   the   exercise   of   computing   the   said   claims   was  unnecessary and redundant. Therefore, the learned Arbitrator had  no occasion to consider the escalation claim on merits and more  particularly  with respect  to  the  computation  made  by the SIL of  escalation claim. 
5.21. It   is   vehemently   submitted   by   Shri   Soparkar,   learned  counsel   for   the   GMDC   that   as   such   neither   learned   Commercial  Court   while   exercising   the   powers   under   Section   34   of   the  Arbitration   Act   nor   even   this   Court   while   exercising   the   power  under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act can remand the matter to  the learned Arbitrator to consider the escalation  claim on merits  afresh. 
5.22. It   is   vehemently   submitted   by   Shri   Soparkar,   learned  counsel   for   the   GMDC   that   as   such   the   issue   of   remanding   the  matter was considered by the learned Commercial Court, however  both the parties refused for remanding the matter to the learned  Arbitrator and therefore, the matter is not required to be remitted  HC-NIC Page 15 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 to   the   learned   Arbitrator.   It   is   submitted   that   even   otherwise  remanding the matter to the learned Arbitrator by the Court while  exercising  the  powers  under  Section  34 of the  Arbitration  Act  is  wholly impossible as once the learned Arbitrator has declared the  award thereafter the learned Arbitrator becomes the functus officio. 
5.23. Shri   Soparkar,   learned   counsel   for   the   GMDC   has  further  submitted  that   it   would   be   pointless  to  remit   the   matter  back   to   the   Commercial   Court   as   the   Commercial   Court   cannot  adduce additional evidence in the present matter, lack of which is  the reason for even considering remittance in the first place.
5.24. It   is   further   submitted   that   even   otherwise   the   SIL  cannot be permitted to have second innings in the matter wherein  it could fill in the blanks, produce additional evidence, and remove  all obstacles, to make a fresh claim for escalation and over­stay. 
Making   above   submissions   and   relying   upon   the   above  decisions,   it   is   requested   to   allow   the   Appeal   preferred   by   the  GMDC and quash and set aside the impugned judgment and order  passed   by   the   learned   Commercial   Court   in   so   far   as   allowing  claiming no.3 while modifying the award declared by the learned  Arbitrator. 
First Appeal Nos. 618 of 2017 & 778 of 2017 6.0. Shri P.C. Kavina, learned counsel for the original applicant ­  SIL has vehemently submitted that in the facts and circumstances  of the case, the learned Commercial Court has not committed any  error   in   modifying   the   award   declared   by   the   learned   Arbitral  HC-NIC Page 16 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 Tribunal thereby granting claim of escalation to original applicant.
6.1. It is further submitted by Shri Kavina, learned counsel for the  SIL   that   it  is   an  admitted position   that   as  per  the   work  order   /  contract   between   the   parties   the   work   was   to   be   completed   by  27.11.2003 including two months grace period. It is submitted that  it was the obligation of the GMDC to provide drawings / fronts.  However, SIL was not provided with the fronts/ drawings / details  of drawings by GMDC from the very beginning. As a consequence,  the construction plan was jeopardized from the very beginning and  the execution of the work was delayed. It is submitted that   SIL  wrote various letters to GMDC from time to time, requested for use  of the drawings and work fronts and pointing out the delay on the  part of the GMDC. However, GMDC never replied to such letters or  otherwise controverted the delay alleged by the SIL. It is submitted  that thus, the GMDC accepted that SIL was not responsible for the  delay. 
6.2. It is further submitted by Shri Kavina, learned counsel  for the SIL that as such vide communication dated 17.08.2004 the  SIL   categorically   informed   GMDC   that   it   is   going   to   raise   the  escalation bills as per the formula which was provided at the time  of   bid   offer.   It   is   submitted   that   pursuant   thereto   SIL   raised   7  periodical bills for escalation and two interim bills for extra costs. It  is   submitted   the   despite   the   above,   the   GMDC   maintained   the  complete silence and the work was accepted by the GMDC without  protest or demur. 
   It is submitted that after about one year from the schedule  HC-NIC Page 17 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 date of completion, the original work order came to be amended  vide  GMDC's  letter dated  24.11.2004  and the  value  of the  work  was almost doubled from Rs. 5,80,71,292/­ to Rs.10,78,71,292/­. It  is   submitted   that   the   said   letter   contained   a   standard   clause  providing that the prices shall remain firm and no escalation shall  be allowed. It is submitted that the aforesaid letter of the GMDC  was replied to by the SIL on the very same day i.e. 24.11.2004,  wherein it was categorically mentioned that condition stipulated in  the amendment that the rates are firm and no escalation will be  allowed is not acceptable as it was practically impossible to execute  the work at fixed rates. It is submitted that therefore, SIL requested  GMDC   to   make   payments   for   the   work   executed   beyond   the  contractual completion period as per the escalation formula already  submitted   by   the   SIL.   It   is   submitted   that   communication   dated  24.11.2004   was   neither   replied   by   the   GMDC     nor   rejected   the  escalation   and  extra   costs  bills   submitted  by   SIL.  It  is  submitted  that   in   fact   the   GMDC   continued   to   accept   the   work   from   SIL  without   any   demur   or   protest   and   also   through   its   various  representatives assured SIL that GMDC would look into the matter  and make provision for appropriate payments and requested SIL to  continue execution of work. It is   submitted that the aforesaid is  evident   from   the   letter   dated   22.2..2007   issued   by   the   GMDC  wherein   it   had   recapitulated   the   discussions   in   a   meeting   held  between the representatives of the parties on the said date. It is  submitted   that   with   respect   to   escalation   and   overstay,   it   was  submitted that these points will be taken into consideration during  the contract closure along with penalty, liquidated damages etc. as  per contract. It is submitted that at that time even the SIL replied to  HC-NIC Page 18 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 the said letter vide its letter dated 6.3.2007 stating that the points  of   penalty   and   liquidated   damages   raised   by   GMDC   were  unwarranted, irrelevant and against the spirit of the contract, since  the work had already been completed to GMDC's satisfaction. It is  submitted that thereafter also in various communications / letters  addressed by SIL, the SIL mentioned about assurance given by the  GMDC that pending issues will be looked into after completion of  work   and   receipt   of   final   bill   duly   certified   by   GMDC's   project  office.   It   is   submitted   that   the   SIL   completed   the   work   on  30.09.2006.   It   is   submitted   that   therefore,   considering   the  aforesaid   facts   and   circumstances   of   the   case   when   the   learned  Commercial Court has modified the award declared by the learned  Arbitrator   and   has   awarded   escalation   /   claim,   the   same   is   not  required to be interfered with by this Court in exercise of powers  under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act. 
6.3. It is further submitted by Shri Kavina, learned counsel for the  SIL that the bills raised by the SIL about escalation price were as  per the formula already submitted by the SIL, which were never  disputed by the GMDC   and the escalation bills were as per the  formula   and   as   per   actual   expenses   incurred,   the   learned  Commercial Court has rightly awarded entire claim no.3 as per the  statement of claim submitted by the SIL. It is further submitted that  for the aforesaid as such no further evidence was required to be led  and the formula suggested by SIL was already on record and the  claim submitted by the SIL with respect to the escalation was as per  the formula already submitted by the SIL. 
HC-NIC Page 19 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 6.4. It is further submitted by Shri Kavina, learned counsel  for the original applicant that in the facts and circumstances of the  case, as the learned Arbitrator ignored the evidence on record and  thereby rejected the claim of the claimant with respect to escalation  and learned Commercial Court is justified in interfering with the  award passed by the learned Arbitrator in exercise of powers under  Section 34 of Act. 
6.5.   Shri Kavina, learned counsel for the SIL has submitted that  the   considering   the   aforesaid   facts   and   circumstances   and   the  material on record, the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in  the case of McDermott International Inc. v.Burn Standard Co. Ltd.,  (2006) 11 SCC 181 and the decision of the Delhi High Court in the  case of Puri Construction Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. v. Larsen & Toubro Ltd. &  Anr. rendered in FAO (OS) 21/2009 shall not be applicable to the  facts of the case on hand. 
6.6.  Shri , learned counsel for the SIL has heavily relied upon the  decision of the Madras High Court in the case of Gaytri Vs. ISG  Novasoft Technologies Ltd. rendered in MANU/TN/2293/2014 in  support of his submission that in the facts and circumstances of the  case, the learned Commercial Court has rightly modified the award  declared   by   the   learned   Tribunal   in   exercise   of   powers   under  Section 34 of the Arbitration Act. 
Making   above   submission   and   relying   upon   the   above  decision,   it   is   requested   to   dismiss   the   appeal   preferred   by   the  GMDC. 
HC-NIC Page 20 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 7.0. Now, so far as appeal preferred by the SIL (First Appeal No.  778 of 2017) challenging the impugned judgment and order passed  by   the   learned   Commercial   Court   in   dismissing   the  Commercial  Civil Miscellaneous Application No. 52 of 2016 preferred by the SIL  insofar   as   confirming   the   award   declared   by   the   sole   Arbitrator  with   respect   to   other   claims   are   concerned,   it   is   vehemently  submitted by Shri Kavina, learned counsel for the original applicant  that   in   the   facts   and   circumstances   of   the   case   the   learned  Commercial   Court   has   materially   erred   in   confirming   the   award  declared   by   the   learned   sole   Arbitrator   insofar   as   rejecting   the  other claims (except claim no.3).
7.1. It is further submitted by Shri Kavina, learned counsel  for   the   SIL   that   the   impugned   order   passed   by   the   learned  Commercial Court to the extent it relates to claim no.4 (claim for  extra costs due to overstay) erroneously upholds the decision of the  learned   Tribunal   in   this   regard,   which   is   unreasoned.   It   is  submitted that there is no reference to copious evidence. 
7.2. It is further submitted by Shri Kavina, learned counsel for the  SIL that the Arbitral award to the extent it relates to claim no.4 is  against the substantive law of India and is therefore, violative of  Section 28(1)(a) of the Arbitration Act and therefore, was liable to  be set aside/ modified under Section 34 of the Act. It is submitted  that   learned   Commercial   Court   has   failed   to   give   any   reasons  whatsoever   as  to   why  the   observations  of   the   learned  Arbitrator  with regard claim no.4 are required to be upheld. 
7.3. It is further submitted by Shri Kavina, learned counsel for the  HC-NIC Page 21 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 SIL   that   both   the   learned   Arbitrator   and   the   Commercial   Court  have   erroneously   held   that   in   the   instant   case,   the   delay   is   not  attributable   only   to   the   GMDC   and   claimant   (SIL)   was   also  responsible for delay in certain cases. It is submitted that there is  no any material on record that SIL is even partially responsible for  the delay. It is submitted that on the contrary, the   SIL placed on  record various uncontroverted letters pointing out the delay on the  part of the GMDC.  
7.4.   It is further submitted by Shri Kavina, learned counsel for  the SIL that while observing herein above, the learned Arbitrator as  well as learned Commercial Court have failed to appreciate and /  or consider the series of letters by the SIL to GMDC wherein  SIL  time and again brought   to the notice of GMDC that the work is  being   suffered   and   delay   is   caused   due   to   non­supply   of  drawings/fronts on part of GMDC. It is submitted that said letters  were   neither   rebutted   nor   protested   on   receipt   by   GMDC.   It   is  submitted   that   even   the   same   were   neither   controverted   by  documentary   or   oral   evidence   even   during   the   course   of  Arbitration. 
7.5.   It is further submitted by Shri Kavina, learned counsel for  the original applicant that as such while dealing with the claim of  escalation,   learned   Commercial   Court  after   taking   into  consideration the various letters by SIL to GMDC, rightly held that  the delay has been caused by reasons attributable to GMDC. It is  submitted that therefore, once the learned Commercial Court has  HC-NIC Page 22 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 come to the conclusion that the delay was caused by GMDC, the  natural corollary is that the entire period of overstay was due to  reasons   attributable   to   GMDC   and   therefore   SIL   is   entitled   to  expenditure incurred during the entire period of overstay.
7.6.   It is further submitted by Shri Kavina, learned counsel for  the SIL that both learned Arbitral Tribunal and learned Commercial  Court failed to appreciate that SIL under the head of overstay has  sought reimbursement of expenses as per actuals and which were  unavoidably   incurred   by   SIL   only   on   account   of   overstay   for  completion of work for GMDC such as labour Charges, Insurance  renewal charges. It is submitted that therefore, when  the expenses  incurred were unavoidable and a natural consequence of extension  of work beyond contract period, the question of SIL proving any  efforts to mitigate the expenses did not arise. It is submitted that  therefore,   learned   Commercial   Court   has   materially   erred   in  upholding   the   observation   made   by   the   learned   Arbitrator   with  respect to claim no.4. 
7.7.   It is further submitted by Shri Kavina, learned counsel for  the original applicant that learned Arbitrator has materially erred  in   observing   that   as    three  other   construction  works   were   being  carried   on   by   SIL   at   the   same   site   and   there   is  no   independent  reliable   evidence   to   show   that   only   on   account   of   this   contract  Simplex   had   to   incur   further   cost.   It   is   submitted   that   while  observing the above, both, the learned Arbitrator and the learned  Commercial   Court   have   completely   overlooked   the   voluminous  documents   filed by SIL in support of its claim for extra costs and  HC-NIC Page 23 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 have not considered the various heads of extra costs claimed by SIL  which   show   that   certain   claims   made   by   SIL   such   as   towards  renewal   of   bank   guarantees   &   insurance   policy   and   head   office  overheads would not be affected by the fact that SIL was executing  three other contracts at the same site.
7.8.   It is further submitted by Shri Kavina, learned counsel for  the SIL that as such in the present case the GMDC   in its written  statement   filed   before   the   learned   Arbitrator   in   relation   to   the  claim   for   extra   costs   due   to   overstay   admitted   that   sum   of   Rs.  31,58,299.55   was   due   and   payable   towards   extra   costs.   It   is  submitted that therefore, in view of such admission by the GMDC,  the same ought to have been considered by the learned Arbitrator  and learned Commercial Court.  
7.9. Shri Kavina, learned counsel for the SIL has submitted that as  such by not allowing the claim no.4 with respect to the extra costs  due   to   overstay,   both,   the   learned   Arbitrator   as   well   as   learned  Commercial   Court   have   disregarded   the   contractual   terms  operating between the parties. It is submitted that clause no.4 of  the order dated February 7, 2002 provides that "prices are firm and  no escalation will be allowed during the currency of the contract  period".  It is submitted that therefore, necessary corollary of the  same is that if SIL was required to undertake any work beyond the  contract period on account of reasons not attributable to SIL, the  prices  would not  be considered fixed. It is submitted that in such a  situation the fixed price clause or no­escalation clause would not  survive nor would be binding on SIL. It is submitted that clause 4 of  HC-NIC Page 24 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 the work order provides that the entire work shall be completed  within   a   period   of   twenty   two   (22)   calendar   months   but   the  accepted   rates  will  be   valid  for   a  further  two  (2)   months'  grace  period. It is submitted that letter  of intent was issued on November  27,   2001   and   thus,   the   tender   rates   were   valid   for   a   period   of  twenty four (24) months from the said date, i.e. up to November  27, 2003. It is submitted that therefore, both the learned Arbitrator  as well as learned Commercial Court have completely ignored the  aforesaid contractual terms. 
8. Now, so far as submission on behalf of the GMDC that while  exercising   powers   under   Section   34   of   the   Arbitration   Act,   the  Commercial Court has no jurisdiction to re­appreciate the evidence  on record and / or finding recorded by the learned Arbitrator is  concerned, Shri Kavina, learned counsel for the original applicant ­  SIL  has submitted that it is a settled law where a finding is based  on no evidence; or  Arbitral Tribunal takes into account something  irrelevant   to   the   decision     which   it   arrives   at;   or   ignored   vital  evidence in arriving at a decision, such decision would necessarily  be perverse and therefore,   the Court in exercise of powers under  Section 34 of the Arbitration Act will be justified in interfering with  such a perverse decision. 
8.1. Now,   so   far   as   submission   on   behalf   of   the   GMDC   that  assuming   the   Court   under   Section   34   of   the   Act   Court   can  appreciate the evidence, however it has power to either accept the  award or set aside the award, but the Court cannot pass a decree,  but the parties shall have recourse to fresh arbitration is concerned,  HC-NIC Page 25 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 it is submitted by Shri Kavina, learned counsel for the SIL that by  such contention GMDC seeks  to narrow the scope of jurisdiction of  the Courts under Section 34 of the Act to merely either act as a  Court of Approval  or  Dis­approval; to accept the award as it is  or  set it  aside the same and nothing more. It is submitted that if the  aforesaid contention of the GMDC is accepted, the same would lead  to   anomalous   situations   and   would   nothing   be   less   than   a  catastrophe of justice. It is submitted that in a case if the Arbitrator  rejects all the claims of a party and the Court under Section 34 of  the Act,  only sets aside the award and as it could not modify the  same, the party shall have to be relegated back for fresh arbitration  and the said process would continue until the Party gets the desired  result. It is further submitted that further the matter would have to  be   sent   to   a   new   Arbitral   Tribunal   as   the   old   Arbitral   Tribunal  would have become  functus officio  after rendering the award. It is  submitted   that   therefore,   if   the   contention   of   the   GMDC   is  accepted, it would render the very recourse under Section 34 of the  Act otiose and redundant. It would further defeat the very purpose  of having a cost effective and speedy alternate dispute resolution by  way of Arbitration. 
8.2. It is submitted that even the words "set aside" used in Section  34 of the Act need to be given "purposive interpretation" so as to  envisage that the power to set aside or confirm the Arbitral award  brings within its fold, the power to undo the miscarriage of justice  caused by a perverse award   or an award vitiated by the grounds  mentioned   in   Section   34   since   the   intention   of   the   legislature  cannot be interpreted to mean that Courts are to turn a blind eye  HC-NIC Page 26 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 despite   the   perversities   and   patent   illegalities   of   an   order  challenged   before   it.   It   is   submitted   that   if   such   a   narrow  interpretation   is   given   effect   to   then   the   entire   purpose   behind  having a recourse of Section 34 of the Act shall be rendered futile  and would be nothing but a mere recourse on paper.
8.3.   Shri Kavina, learned counsel for the SIL has submitted that  even in the present case Section 55 and 70 of the Contract Act shall  squarely be applicable. 
8.4. Shri Kavina, learned counsel for the SIL has submitted that  due to following facts the case of the SIL squarely falls within the  provisions of Section 55, Part III of the Contract Act: 
"(a)   Simplex   putting   GMDC   at   notice   of   its   intention   to   claim  escalation and additional costs for overstay due to the delays vide its   letter dated October 23, 2003 as well as its subsequent letter dated  August 17, 2004 and various bills for escalation and additional costs  raised by Simplex; (b) no protest on part of GMDC to such letters and  bills, (c) no reply to the letter of Simplex refusing to accept the letter   dated 24.11.2004 addressed by GMDC  (d) further acceptance of work   without any demur, and (v) assurances / studied silence on the part of  GMDC makes it apparent that the case of Simplex falls within Section  55   of   the   Contract   Act   and   GMDC   is   liable   to   pay   Simplex   the   escalation and extra costs claimed by it."
8.5. It is further submitted by Shri Kavina, learned counsel for the  original   applicant­SIL   that   even   assuming   though   not   admitting  that Section 55 of the Contract  Act does not apply, as the work  HC-NIC Page 27 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 executed by the SIL under the a commercial contract and the same  was   executed   with   no   intention   of   same   being   a   gratuitous   act,  considering Section 70 of the Contract Act, for the work executed  by the SIL beyond the contractual period and with a specific notice  of claiming compensation in the form of escalation and extra­costs,  the SIL will be entitled to escalation price   as well as extra costs  due to overstay.
Making   above   submissions   and   relying   upon   the   following  decisions,   it   is   requested   to   dismiss   the   appeal   preferred   by   the  GMDC and allow the appeal preferred by the SIL and modify the  award declared by the learned Arbitrator rejecting the other claims  and consequently to allow other claims including claim no.3. 
(1). General   Manager,   Northern   Railways   &   Anr.   V.   Sarvesh  Chopra reported in  (2002) 4 SCC 45. 
(2). K.N.   Sathyapalan   V.  State   of  Kerala  reported   in   (2007)  13  SCC 43.
(3). P.M. Paul V. Union of India reported in 1989 Suppl(1) SCC 
368. (4).   Food Corporation of India V. A.M. Ahmed and Co reported  in (2006) 13 SCC 779. 
First Appeal No. 618 of 2017 9.0. Heard   the   learned   advocates   for   the   respective   parties   at  length. 
HC-NIC Page 28 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 9.1. At   the   outset,   it   is   required   to   be   noted   that   present   First  Appeal   is   an   appeal   under   Section   37   of   the   Arbitration   Act,  challenging   the   impugned   judgment   and   order   passed   by   the  learned   Commercial   Court,   Ahmedabad,   by   which,   learned  Commercial Court in exercise of powers under Section 34 of the  Arbitration   Act   has   partially   modified   the   award   passed   by   the  learned Arbitral Tribunal and has allowed the claim for escalation  in favour of the SIL, however has confirmed the rest of the award  declared   by   the   learned   Arbitral   Tribunal   confirming   the   award  declared   by   the   learned   Arbitral   Tribunal   confirming   the   award  declared by the learned Arbitral Tribunal rejecting other claims. 
9.2. At this stage, it is required to be noted that before the learned  Arbitral Tribunal and as per the statement of claim submitted by  the SIL, the SIL claimed as under: 
         Sr No. Particulars                                                   Amount (Rs)
         1          Liquidated Damages                                        5,39,106/­
         2          Claim under RA Bill NO. 28                                6,87,014/­
         3          Escalation                                                1,28,30,519/­
         4          Extra Cost on account of overstay                         1,36,64,532/­
         5          Payment of Service Tax.                                   76,36,090.52
         6          Mental Agony                                              10,00,000/­
         7          Loss of Reputation                                        20,00,000/­
         8          Interest (at 18%)
         9          Cost
That the learned Arbitral Tribunal rejected all the claims. In  an application submitted by the SIL submitted before the learned  HC-NIC Page 29 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 Commercial Court, submitted under Section 34 of the Arbitration  Act,   by   impugned   judgment   and   order,   the   learned   Commercial  Court has allowed the claim no.3 i.e. with respect to the escalation  and  confirmed   the   award  declared   by   the   learned  Tribunal   with  respect to claim no.4 viz. extra costs on account of overstay. At this  stage, it is required to be noted that so far as claim nos. 5 to 9 are  concerned   and   the   SIL   challenged   the   award   declared   by   the  learned Arbitral Tribunal rejecting the claim nos. 3 and 4 i..e with  respect   to   escalation   and   claim   with   respect   to   extra   costs   on  account   of   overstay.   As   observed   herein   above,   by   impugned  judgment and order, the learned Commercial Court has allowed the  claim no.3 in toto i.e. Rs. 1,28,30,519/­ and view of the learned  Arbitrator has been reversed.   By impugned judgment and order,  the learned Commercial Court has confirmed the award declared  by the Arbitral Tribunal with respect to the claim no.4 viz. extra  costs   on   account   of   overstay.   Feeling   aggrieved   and   dissatisfied  with   the   impugned   judgment   and   order   passed   by   the   learned  Commercial   Court   in   allowing   the   claim   no.3   i.e.   escalation  and  reversing   the   view   of   the   learned   Arbitrator,   the   GMDC   has  preferred present First Appeal No. 618 of 2017. Feeling aggrieved  and dissatisfied with the impugned judgment and order passed by  the learned Commercial Court in confirming the award declared by  the learned Arbitral Tribunal in rejecting claim no.4 viz. extra costs  on account of overstay, the SIL has preferred present First Appeal  No. 778 of 2017. 
10. Therefore, the first and foremost thing which is required to  be considered is the scope and ambit of the learned Commercial  HC-NIC Page 30 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 Court under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act and the scope and  ambit of present First Appeals under Section 37 of the Arbitration  Act. 
10.1. In   the   recent   decision   in   the   case   of  Associate   Builders  (Supra) the Honble Supreme Court had an occasion to consider the  scope and ambit of challenge to the award under Section 34 of the  Arbitration Act and when in exercise of powers under Section 34 of  the   Arbitration   Act   the   findings   of   fact   recorded   in   the   arbitral  award   can   be   interfered   with   by   the   Court.   In   the   aforesaid  decision,   the   Honble   Supreme   Court   had   also   an   occasion   to  consider the grounds on which the arbitral award may be assailed.  In   the   aforesaid   decision,   it   is   observed   and  held   that   it   is   only  when   the   award  is   in   conflict   with  the   public   policy   of   India  as  prescribed in Section 34(2)(b)(ii) of the Arbitration Act, that the  merits   of   an   arbitral   award   are   to   be   looked   into   under   certain  specified   circumstances.   In   paragraph   nos.13   to   17   the   Honble  Supreme Court has observed and held as under;
13. In as much as serious objections have been taken to the   Division Bench judgment on the ground that it has ignored the   parameters laid down in a series of judgments by this Court as   to   the   limitations   which   a   Judge   hearing   objections   to   an  arbitral   award   under  Section   34  is   subject   to,   we   deem   it  necessary to state the law on the subject. 
14. Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act reads as  follows­  "34.   Application   for   setting   aside   arbitral   award.­(1)  Recourse to a Court against an arbitral award may be made   only   by   an   application   for   setting   aside   such   award   in   accordance with sub­section (2) and sub­section (3).  (2) An arbitral award may be set aside by the Court only if­ 
(a)   the   party   making   the   application   furnishes   proof   that­  HC-NIC Page 31 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017
(i) a party was under some incapacity; or 
(ii) The arbitration agreement is not valid under   the law to which the parties have subjected it or,   failing any indication thereon, under the law for   the time being in force; or 
(iii)   the   party   making   the   application   was   not   given   proper   notice   of   the   appointment   of   an   arbitrator or of the arbitral proceedings or was   otherwise unable to present his case; or 
(iv) the arbitral award deals with a dispute not  contemplated by or not falling within the terms of  the   submission   to   arbitration,   or   it   contains   decisions   on   matters   beyond   the   scope   of   the   submission to arbitration: 
Provided   that,   if   the   decisions   on   matters   submitted   to   arbitration   can   be   separated   from  those   not   so   submitted,   only   that   part   of   the   arbitral   award   which   contains   decisions   on  matters not submitted to arbitration may be set  aside; or 
(v) the composition of the arbitral tribunal or the   arbitral procedure was not in accordance with the   agreement of the parties, unless such agreement   was in conflict with a provision of this Part from  which the parties cannot derogate, or, failing such   agreement, was not in accordance with this Part;   or 
(b) the Court finds that­ 
(i) the subject­matter of the dispute is not capable  of settlement by arbitration under the law for the   time being in force, or 
(ii)   the   arbitral   award   is   in   conflict   with   the   public policy of India. 
Explanation.­Without prejudice to the generality   of   sub­clause   (ii),   it   is  hereby   declared,  for   the   avoidance   of   any   doubt,   that   an   award   is   in   conflict   with   the   public   policy   of   India   if   the   making of the award was induced or affected by   fraud or corruption or was in violation of Section  75 or Section 81. 
HC-NIC Page 32 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 (3)   An   application  for   setting   aside  may   not   be  made  after   three months have elapsed from the date on which the party   making that application had received the arbitral award or, if   a request had been made under  Section 33, from the date on  which   that   request   had   been   disposed   of   by   the   arbitral   tribunal: 
Provided that if the Court is satisfied that the applicant was   prevented   by   sufficient   cause   from   making   the   application   within the said period of three months it may entertain the   application   within   a   further   period   of   thirty   days,   but   not   thereafter. 
(4)   On   receipt   of   an   application   under   sub­section   (1),   the   Court may, where it is appropriate and it is so requested by a   party, adjourn the proceedings for a period of time determined   by it in order to give the arbitral tribunal an opportunity to   resume the arbitral proceedings or to take such other action as  in the opinion of arbitral tribunal will eliminate the grounds   for setting aside the arbitral award." 
15. This Section in conjunction with  Section 5  makes it clear   that an arbitration award that is governed by part I of the   Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 can be set aside only on   grounds   mentioned   under  Section   34  (2)   and   (3),   and   not  otherwise. Section 5 reads as follows: 
"5.   Extent   of   judicial   intervention.­Notwithstanding  anything contained in any other law for the time being  in force, in matters governed by this Part, no judicial   authority shall intervene except where so provided in this   Part." 
16. It is important to note that the 1996 Act was enacted to   replace  the  1940  Arbitration  Act  in  order   to  provide  for   an  arbitral   procedure   which   is   fair,   efficient   and   capable   of  meeting   the   needs   of   arbitration;   also   to   provide   that   the   tribunal gives reasons for an arbitral award; to ensure that the   tribunal remains within the limits of its jurisdiction; and  to  minimize the supervisory roles of courts in the arbitral process. 
17. It will be seen that none of the grounds contained in sub­   clause 2 (a) deal with the merits of the decision rendered by an   arbitral award. It is only when we come to the award being in   conflict with the public policy of India that the merits of an  arbitral  award   are  to  be  looked  into under  certain specified   circumstances. 
HC-NIC Page 33 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 What can be said to be against the public policy of India has been  discussed by the Honble Supreme Court in the said decision.
At this stage, it is required to be noted that it is not the case on  behalf of the appellants that the award declared by the learned Arbitral  tribunal   is   in   conflict   with   the   public   policy   of   India.   Under   the  circumstances, the same is not required to be dealt with any further.
Thereafter, the Honble Supreme Court has considered the fourth  head namely patent illegality. While considering what can be said to be  patent illegality the Honble Supreme court has observed in paragraph  nos.40 to 45 as under;
Patent Illegality 
40.We now come to the fourth head of public policy namely, patent   illegality.  It must  be remembered  that  under  the  explanation  to   section   34  (2)   (b),  an   award   is   said   to   be   in   conflict  with   the   public policy of India if the making of the award was induced or   affected by fraud or corruption. This ground is perhaps the earliest   ground on which courts in England set aside awards under English   law. Added to this ground (in 1802) is the ground that an arbitral   award   would   be   set   aside   if  there   were   an   error   of   law   by   the   arbitrator.   This   is   explained   by   Lord   Justice   Denning   in  R   v.   Northumberland Compensation Appeal Tribunal. Ex Parte Shaw.,   1952 1 All ER 122 at page 130:
"Leaving now the statutory tribunals, I turn to the awards of   the arbitrators. The Court of King's Bench never interfered   by certiorari with the award of an arbitrator, because it was   a private tribunal and not subject to the prerogative writs. If   the  award  was  not made  a rule  of court,  the only  course   available to an aggrieved party was to resist an action on   the award or to file a bill in equity. If the award was made a   rule of court, a motion could be made to the court to set it   aside for misconduct of the arbitrator on the ground that it   was procured by corruption or other undue means: see the   statute 9 and 10 Will. III, c. 15. At one time an award could   not be upset on the ground of error of law by the arbitrator   because that could not be said to be misconduct or undue   means, but ultimately it was held in Kent v. Elstob, (1802)   3 East 18, that an award could be set aside for error of law   HC-NIC Page 34 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 on   the   face   of   it.   This   was   regretted   by   Williams,   J.,   in   Hodgkinson v. Fernie, (1857)  3 C.B.N.S. 189,  but is now   well established." 
41.   This,   in   turn,   led   to   the   famous   principle   laid   down   in   Champsey   Bhara   Company   v.   The   Jivraj   Balloo   Spinning   and   Weaving Company Ltd., AIR 1923 PC 66, where the Privy Council   referred to Hodgkinson and then laid down: 
"The law on the subject has never been more clearly stated   than   by   Williams,   J.  in  the   case   of   Hodgkinson   v.   Fernie   (1857) 3 C.B.N.S. 189. 
"The   law   has   for   many   years   been   settled,   and   remains   so   at   this   day,   that,   where   a   cause   or  matters in difference are referred to an arbitrator a   lawyer  or a layman,  he is constituted  the sole  and   final   judge   of   all   questions   both   of   law   and   of  fact ...... The  only exceptions  to that rule are cases   where the award is the result of corruption or fraud,   and one other, which though it is to be regretted, is   now,   I   think   firmly   established   viz.,   where   the   question of law necessarily arises on the face of the   award   or   upon   some   paper   accompanying   and   forming part of the award. Though the propriety of   this latter may very well be doubted, I think it may   be considered as established." 
"Now   the   regret   expressed   by   Williams,   J.   in   Hodgkinson   v.   Fernie   has   been   repeated   by   more   than one learned Judge, and it is certainly not to be   desired   that   the   exception   should   be   in   any   way   extended. An error in law on the face of the award   means, in their Lordships' view, that you can find in   the   award   or   a   document   actually   incorporated   thereto,   as   for   instance,   a   note   appended   by   the   arbitrator stating the reasons for his judgment, some   legal proposition which is the basis of the award and   which   you   can   then   say   is   erroneous.   It   does   not   mean that if in a narrative a reference is made to a   contention of one party that opens the door to seeing   first what that contention is, and then going to the   contract on which the parties' rights depend to see if   that contention is sound. Here it is impossible to say,   from what is shown on the face of the award, what   mistake the arbitrators made. The only way that the   learned   judges   have   arrived   at   finding   what   the   mistake   was   is   by   saying:   "Inasmuch   as   the   Arbitrators awarded so and so, and inasmuch as the   letter shows that then buyer rejected the cotton, the   HC-NIC Page 35 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 arbitrators  can  only  have  arrived  at that result  by   totally misinterpreting Cl.52." But they were entitled   to   give   their   own   interpretation   to   Cl.   52   or   any   other article, and the award will stand unless, on the   face   of   it   they   have   tied   themselves   down   to   some   special legal proposition which then, when examined,   appears  to be  unsound.  Upon  this  point,  therefore,   their Lordships  think  that the judgment  of Pratt,  J   was right and the conclusion of the learned Judges of   the Court of Appeal erroneous." 
This judgment has been consistently followed in India to test   awards under Section 30 of the Arbitration Act, 1940. 
42.   In   the   1996   Act,   this   principle   is   substituted   by   the   'patent   illegality' principle which, in turn, contains three sub heads ­  42.1   (a)   a   contravention   of   the   substantive   law   of   India   would   result   in   the   death   knell   of   an   arbitral   award.   This   must   be   understood in the sense that such illegality must go to the root of   the matter and cannot be of a trivial nature. This again is a really   a   contravention   of  Section   28(1)(a)  of   the   Act,   which   reads   as   under: 
"28. Rules applicable to substance of dispute.­(1) Where   the place of arbitration is situated in India,­ 
(a)   in   an   arbitration   other   than   an   international   commercial   arbitration,   the   arbitral   tribunal   shall   decide   the   dispute   submitted   to   arbitration   in   accordance   with   the   substantive   law   for   the   time   being in force in India;" 
42.2   (b)   a   contravention   of   the  Arbitration   Act  itself   would   be   regarded as a patent illegality­ for example if an arbitrator gives no   reasons for an award in contravention of section 31(3) of the Act,   such award will be liable to be set aside. 
42.3 (c) Equally, the third sub­head of patent illegality is really a   contravention of Section 28 (3) of the Arbitration Act, which reads   as under: 
"28. Rules applicable to substance of dispute.­  (3)   In   all   cases,   the   arbitral   tribunal   shall   decide   in  accordance   with   the   terms   of  the   contract   and   shall   take   into   account   the   usages   of   the   trade   applicable   to   the   transaction." 
This   last   contravention   must   be   understood   with   a   caveat.   An   arbitral tribunal must decide in accordance with the terms of the   contract, but if an arbitrator construes a term of the contract in a  reasonable  manner,  it  will  not   mean  that   the  award   can  be  set   HC-NIC Page 36 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 aside   on  this  ground.  Construction  of  the  terms  of a contract  is   primarily for an arbitrator to decide unless the arbitrator construes   the contract in such a way that it could be said to be something   that no fair minded or reasonable person could do. 
43.  In   McDermott   International   Inc.   v.   Burn   Standard  Co.   Ltd.,   (2006) 11 SCC 181, this Court held as under: 
"112. It is trite that the terms of the contract can be express   or   implied.   The   conduct   of   the   parties   would   also   be   a   relevant factor in the matter of construction of a contract.   The   construction   of   the   contract   agreement   is   within   the   jurisdiction   of   the   arbitrators   having   regard   to   the   wide   nature, scope and ambit of the arbitration agreement and   they   cannot   be   said   to   have   misdirected   themselves   in   passing the award by taking into consideration the conduct   of the parties. It is also trite that correspondences exchanged   by the parties are required to be taken into consideration for   the purpose of construction of a contract. Interpretation of a   contract is a matter for the arbitrator to determine, even if   it gives rise to determination of a question of law. (See Pure   Helium India (P) Ltd. v. ONGC [(2003)  8 SCC 593] and   D.D. Sharma v. Union of India [(2004) 5 SCC 325]). 
113.   Once,   thus,   it   is   held   that   the   arbitrator   had   the   jurisdiction,   no   further   question   shall   be   raised   and   the   court will not exercise its jurisdiction unless it is found that   there exists any bar on the face of the award." 
44. In MSK Projects (I) (JV) Ltd. v. State of Rajasthan, (2011) 10   SCC 573, the Court held: 
"17.   If   the   arbitrator   commits   an   error   in   the   construction of the contract, that is an error within   his   jurisdiction.   But   if   he   wanders   outside   the   contract and deals with matters not allotted to him,   he commits a jurisdictional error. Extrinsic evidence   is admissible in such cases because the dispute is not   something  which arises under  or in relation  to the   contract   or   dependent   on   the   construction   of   the   contract or to be determined within the award. The   ambiguity   of   the   award   can,   in   such   cases,   be   resolved   by   admitting   extrinsic   evidence.   The   rationale of this rule is that the nature of the dispute   is something which has to be determined outside and   independent  of what appears in the award. Such a  jurisdictional   error   needs   to   be   proved   by   evidence   extrinsic   to   the   award.   (See   Gobardhan   Das   v.   Lachhmi   Ram  [AIR   1954   SC   689],  Thawardas   Pherumal   v.   Union   of   India  [AIR   1955   SC   468],   HC-NIC Page 37 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 Union of India v. Kishorilal Gupta & Bros. [AIR 1959   SC   1362],  Alopi   Parshad   &   Sons   Ltd.   v.   Union   of   India [AIR 1960 SC 588], Jivarajbhai Ujamshi Sheth   v.   Chintamanrao   Balaji  [AIR   1965   SC   214]   and   Renusagar   Power   Co.   Ltd.   v.   General   Electric   Co.  [(1984) 4 SCC 679 : AIR 1985 SC 1156] )." 
45.  In Rashtriya Ispat Nigam  Ltd. v. Dewan  Chand  Ram Saran,  (2012) 5 SCC 306, the Court held: 
"43.   In   any   case,   assuming   that   Clause   9.3   was   capable of two interpretations, the view taken by the   arbitrator   was   clearly   a   possible   if   not   a   plausible   one. It is not possible to say that the arbitrator had   travelled   outside   his   jurisdiction,   or   that   the   view   taken by him was against the terms of contract. That   being the position, the High Court had no reason to   interfere  with the  award  and  substitute  its  view  in   place of the interpretation accepted by the arbitrator.  
44.   The   legal   position   in   this   behalf   has   been   summarized in para 18 of the judgment of this Court   in SAIL v. Gupta Brother Steel Tubes Ltd. [(2009) 10   SCC 63: (2009) 4 SCC (Civ) 16] and which has been   referred to above. Similar view has been taken later   in  Sumitomo   Heavy   Industries   Ltd.   v.   ONGC   Ltd.   [(2010) 11 SCC 296: (2010) 4 SCC (Civ) 459] to   which   one   of   us   (Gokhale,   J.)   was   a   party.   The   observations in para 43 thereof are instructive in this   behalf. 
45.  This para 43 reads as follows: (Sumitomo case   [(2010) 11 SCC 296 : (2010) 4 SCC (Civ) 459] ,   SCC p. 313) "43. ... The umpire has considered the   fact   situation   and   placed   a   construction   on   the   clauses of the agreement which according to him was   the correct one. One may at the highest say that one   would have preferred another construction of Clause   17.3  but that  cannot  make  the  award  in any  way   perverse.  Nor  can  one  substitute  one's  own  view  in   such   a  situation,   in   place   of   the   one  taken   by   the   umpire, which would amount to sitting in appeal. As   held by this Court in Kwality Mfg. Corpn. v. Central   Warehousing Corpn. [(2009) 5 SCC 142 : (2009) 2   SCC   (Civ)   406]   the   Court   while   considering   challenge   to   arbitral   award   does   not   sit   in   appeal   over   the   findings   and   decision   of   the   arbitrator,   which is what the High Court has practically done in   this   matter.   The   umpire   is   legitimately   entitled   to   HC-NIC Page 38 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 take the view which he holds to be the correct one   after considering  the material before  him and after   interpreting   the   provisions   of   the   agreement.   If   he   does so, the decision of the umpire has to be accepted   as final and binding." 
10.2. Applying the law laid down  by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in  the aforesaid decisions, this Court is required to examine and / or  consider   whether   the   learned   Commercial   Court   is   justified   in  modifying the award declared by the learned Arbitral Tribunal and  in allowing the claim no.3 i.e. claim with respect to the escalation  which was rejected by the learned Tribunal, in exercise of powers  under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act ? This Court is also required  to   consider   whether   in   the   facts   and   circumstances   of   the   case  learned   Commercial   Court   is   justified   in   rejecting   Section   34  application   in   so   far   as   confirming   the   award   declared   by   the  Arbitral Tribunal rejecting the claim no.4 i.e. claim with respect to  extra costs on account of overstay ?
11. Now, so far as the claim no.3 with respect to escalation price  is concerned, at the outset, it is required to be noted that in the  contract/   agreement   /  work   order,   it   was  specifically   mentioned  that  prices are "firm and no escalation will be allowed during the  currency   of   the   contract   period."   However,   subsequently   SIL  insisted for escalation price even at the time when the period of  contract was extended. However, GMDC did not agree for the same  and   therefore,   SIL   at   the   relevant   time   did   not   pursue   their  insistence for escalation    clause. It is true that thereafter the SIL  continued  the  work  and  complete  the  work  within  the  extended  HC-NIC Page 39 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 period. It is also true that subsequently when the SIL submitted the  invoices, the same were with escalation price as per formula earlier  suggested by it but was not accepted by the GMDC. However, it  was the case on behalf of the SIL that in the communication dated  22.02.2007 the GMDC agreed to consider their claim of escalation  price. It appears that entire claim of the escalation by the SIL was  based on the premise that GMDC did not object to their letter dated  17.08.2004 written by the SIL and that if allowed the claimant to  proceed with the work. It was also the case on behalf of the SIL  that officer of the GMDC assured that the escalation price would be  paid. However, in absence of any specific evidence with respect to  time   and   name   of   the   officer   by   whom   such   representation   was  made and in absence of any evidence led by SIL with respect to  such assurance, learned Arbitrator did not accept the case of the  SIL. At this stage, it is required to be noted that as such SIL had not  led any oral evidence. From the reasons and the findings recorded  by learned Arbitral Tribunal,  it appears that the learned Arbitral  Tribunal rejected the claim no.3 i.e. claim with respect to escalation  on   the   ground   that   (1)   Claim   not   supported   by   documentary  evidence; (2) GMDC specifically denied escalation; (3) No evidence  / corroborative as regards delinquent or officer of the GMDC (4)  Section 55 of the Indian Contract Act shall not be applicable.
11.1. However,  the learned Commercial Court has reversed  the finding recorded by the learned Arbitral Tribunal by observing  that   parties   had   chosen   not   to   lead   any   ocular   evidence   and  therefore, the submission on behalf of the GMDC that document in  question  have not been proved by  the SIL by way of leading oral  HC-NIC Page 40 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 evidence do not find any force. However, it is required to be noted  that by the aforesaid conduct, the requirement of proving case was  not done away and still the SIL was required to prove its case by  leading   evidence.   Under   the   circumstances,   learned   Commercial  Court has materially erred in reversing the finding recorded by the  learned sole Arbitrator and that too in exercise of powers under  Section 34 of the Arbitration Act. 
11.2.  Now, so far as the letter dated 22.02.2007 which was heavily  relied   upon   by   the   SIL   and   in   which,   according   to   the   SIL,   the  GMDC stated that question of escalation will be considered by it, it  is   required   to   be   noted   that   in   the   said   communication   dated  22.02.2007 there does not appear to be any such assurance given  by the GMDC to consider the claim regarding escalation. What is  stated   is   that   "Mr.   U.B.Singh   has   also   raised   points   regarding  escalation   &   over   run   of   contract.   It   is   informed   that   during  contract   closure   these   points   alongwith   penalty,   liquidated  damages etc. as per contract will be taken in consideration as per  the   Contract".   The   learned   Arbitrator   has   observed   that   the  communication/ letter dated dated 22.02.2007 cannot be said to  be   acceptance   of   escalation   price.   However,   the   learned  Commercial Court has reversed the finding recorded by the learned  Arbitral   Tribunal   in   relation   to   the   letter   dated   22.02.2007   by  observing   that   "even   assurances   given   by   the   responsible   and  authorized representative of the respondent cannot be given a go­ bye as it emerges from the correspondence appears to have been  HC-NIC Page 41 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 find force and, therefore, no cogent reasons even has been adduced  by the respondent for not believing the same." From the aforesaid,  it appears that learned Commercial Court has therefore, materially  erred in reversing the finding recorded by the learned Arbitrator in  relation to the letter dated 22.02.2007 and in considering and / or  treating   the   letter   dated   22.02.2007   addressed   by   the   GMDC   to  Simplex as acceptance of claim in relation to escalation. 
11.3. It   is   required   to  be   noted  that   the   SIL   heavily  relied   upon  Section 55 of the Indian Contract Act as well as Section 62 of the  Indian Contract Act.   Now, so far as reliance placed upon the 3rd  part   of   the   Section   55   of   the   Contract   Act   is   concerned,   at   the  outset, it is required to be noted that in the facts and circumstances  narrated herein above, Section 55, more particularly, 3rd part of  Section 55 shall not be applicable and / or of any assistance to the  SIL. Merely because, time to complete the work was extended by  the GMDC,   the SIL shall not be entitled to compensation for any  loss occasioned by the non performance of the promise at the time  of agreement. At this stage, it is required to be noted that as such  learned   Arbitrator   did   not   go   into   the   merits,   on   who   was  responsible for delay. 
11.4. Now,   so   far   as   reliance   placed   upon   Section   62   of   the  Contract Act is concerned, Section 62 shall be applicable in a case  where there was novation of contract and the original contract is  entirely   substituted.   When   new   contract   comes   into   effect   the  original contract need not be performed at all. This was not the  HC-NIC Page 42 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 case in the instant case. In the original contract only, the GMDC  granted extension of time. Therefore, the reliance upon Section 62  of the Contract Act was absolutely misplaced. 
Considering the aforesaid facts and circumstances, it appears  that   learned  Commercial   Court   has  materially   erred   in   reversing  the finding recorded by the learned Arbitral Tribunal in relation to  the   escalation.   The   learned   Commercial   Court   has   exceeded   its  jurisdiction   in   exercising   the   powers   under   Section   34   of   the  Arbitration Act as an Appellate Court, which is not permissible. 
11.5. Even otherwise, the impugned judgment and order passed by  the learned Commercial Court in allowing the claim no.3 in toto  and   that   too   in   exercise   of   powers   under   Section   34   of   the  Arbitration Act, cannot be sustained. Whatever the claim was made  by the claimant so stated in the statement of claim, the same has  been allowed by the Commercial Court. It is required to be noted  that as such SIL did not lead any oral evidence and therefore, did  not prove the claim and computation by leading evidence, its claim  in relation to escalation. At this stage, it is required to be noted that  as   such   GMDC   specifically   denied   the   claim   no.3   and   even  computation of claim no.3. Therefore, the same was required to be  proved by leading evidence, by SIL. 
11.6. At this stage, it is required to be noted that in fact during the  course of the hearing, even the learned Commercial Court directed,  rather requested learned counsel for both the parties to avail the  scope  of Section 34(4) of the Arbitration  Act,  instead of seeking  remittance of award under Section 16 of the Old Arbitration Act. 
HC-NIC Page 43 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 However, the same was not accepted by the learned counsel for the  respective parties and they requested for disposal of the application  under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act in accordance with law. At  this stage, it is required to be noted that even learned counsel for  the SIL submitted that while exercising the powers under Section  34(4) of the Arbitration Act both the issue pertaining to escalation  and extra costs incurred on account of overstay be referred to the  Arbitrator.   However   the   same   was   not   amenable   to   the   learned  counsel for the GMDC. Even the similar request was made by Shri  Kavina, learned counsel for the SIL to remand the matter to the  learned   Arbitrator,   which   is   vehemently   opposed   by   learned  counsel   for   the   GMDC.   Learned   counsel   for   the   GMDC   has  vehemently   submitted  that   remanding  the   matter   to   the   learned  Arbitrator, by the Court in exercise of powers under Section 34/ 37  of   the   Arbitration   Act   is   not   permissible.   It   is   submitted  by   Shri  Soparkar,   learned   counsel   for   the   GMDC   that   once   the   learned  Arbitrator   declares   the   award,   thereafter   learned   Arbitrator  becomes  functus   officio  and   thereafter   he   has   no   authority   to  continue with the arbitration proceedings. 
11.7. Even otherwise it is required to be noted that there are  no   such   powers   of   remand   vested   with   the   Court   exercising   the  powers either under Section 34 or Section 37 of the Arbitration Act.  The only power the Court possesses is under Section 34(4) of the  Arbitration  Act, which  is the repository of power invested in the  Court. Section 34(4) of the Arbitration reads as under:
"34. .....
HC-NIC Page 44 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 (4). On receipt of an application under sub­section (1),  the   court   may,   where   it   is   appropriate   and   it   is   so  requested by a party, adjourn the proceedings for a period  of   time   determined   by   it   in   order   to   give   the   arbitral  tribunal an opportunity to resume the arbitral proceedings  or to take such other action as in the opinion of arbitral  tribunal   will   eliminate   the   grounds  for   setting  aside   the  arbitral award."
11.7.1 Considering   the   aforesaid   provision   it   is   amply   clear  that the Court can defer the hearing of the application filed under  Section   34   of   the   Arbitration   Act   setting   aside   the   award   on   a  written request made by a party to the arbitration proceedings to  facilitate   the   Arbitral   Tribunal   by   resuming   the   arbitration  proceedings or to take such other action as in the opinion of the  Arbitral Tribunal will eliminate the grounds for setting aside the  Arbitral   Award.   The   quintessence   for   exercising   the   the   power  under  this   provision  is  that  the  Arbitral  Award  has not  been  set  aside.   The   challenge   to   the   said   award   has   been   set   up   under  Section   34   of   the   Arbitration   Act   about   the   deficiencies   in   the  Arbitral   Award   which   may   be   curable   by   allowing   the   Arbitral  Tribunal to take such measures which can eliminate the grounds  for setting aside the Arbitral Award. No power has been invested by  the Parliament in the Court to remand the matter to the Arbitral  Tribunal except to adjourn the proceedings for the limited purpose  mentioned in sub­section (4) of section 34. The view which we are  expressing   is   supported   by   the   decision   of   the   Hon'ble   Supreme  Court   in   the   case   of  McDermott   International   Inc.   vs.   Burn  Standard Ltd. reported in (2006) 11 SCC 181. 
HC-NIC Page 45 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 11.7.2 Even considering sub­section (4) of Section 34 of the  Arbitration Act, the limited discretion available to the Court under  sub­section (4) of Section 34 can be exercised only upon a written  application   made   in   that   behalf   by   a   party   to   the   arbitration  proceedings.   Even   such   a   request   can   be   made   before   formally  setting aside the award. Before formally setting aside the award, if  the party to the arbitration proceedings fails to request the Court to  defer the proceedings pending before it, then it is not open to a  party to move an application under sub­section (4) of Section 34 of  the   Arbitration   Act.   As   observed   hereinabove,   consequent   to  disposal   of   the   main   proceedings   under   Section   34   of   the  Arbitration   Act   by   the   Court,   it   would   become  functus   officio.  Therefore, the limited remedy available under Section 34(4) of the  Arbitration   Act   is   required   to   be   invoked   by   the   party   to   the  arbitration proceedings before the award is set aside by the Court.
At this stage it is required to be noted that in the present case  even without any formal application by either of the parties to the  arbitration   proceedings,   the   learned   Commercial   Court   gave   an  option to the original applicant to go before the Arbitral Tribunal  under   section   34(4)   of   the   Arbitration   Act.   That   however,   the  parties refused to the said suggestion and requested the Court to  pass   the   order   on  merits.  Therefore,   now,  it   is  not  open   for  the  original   applicant   ­   SIL   to   request   to   remand   the   matter   to   the  learned Arbitral Tribunal. 
Under the circumstances, the request made by Shri Kavina,  learned counsel for the SIL to remand the matter to the Arbitrator,  HC-NIC Page 46 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 canot be accepted. 
11.8. Now, so far as reliance placed upon the decision in the case  of A.M. Ahmed and Co (supra) relied upon by Shri Kavina, learned  counsel for the SIL is concerned, at the outset, it is required to be  noted that in the said decision it was specific finding recorded by  the learned Arbitrator that there was a delay in execution of the  contract   due   to   the   conduct   of   Food   Corporation   of   India   and  therefore, Corporation was liable for the consequence of the delay  viz. increase in statutory wages. It is required to be noted that in  the   present   case   there   is   no   such   finding   given   by   the   learned  Arbitrator and / or even learned Commercial Court that the delay  was attributable to the GMDC. The learned Arbitrator specifically  observed that in the facts and circumstances of the case, it is not  necessary to go into the merits of the rival contention as regards  the   reasons   of   delay   attributable   to   whom.   Despite   the   above,  learned   Commercial   Court   has   observed   that   GMDC   never  appeared to have fulfilled its obligation of providing drawings and  work fronts in time resulting in delay in completion of the project.  Even in the reasoning assigned while disposing of the claim no.1,  the   learned   Commercial   Court   has   observed   that   delay   is   not  attributable to the claimant only. Therefore, what was required to  be thereafter considered was whether  who was responsible for the  delay and to what extent was again required to be considered. As  observed herein above, the learned Arbitrator did not go into the  merits   of   the   rival   contention   as   regards   reasons   of   delay  attributable   to   whom.   Under   the   circumstances,   the   aforesaid  decision shall not be applicable to the facts of the case on hand. 
HC-NIC Page 47 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 11.9. Now, so far as reliance placed upon the decision in the case  of   K.N.Sathyapalan   (supra)   relied   upon   by   Shri   Kavina,   learned  counsel for the SIL is concerned, at the outset, it is required to be  noted that in the case before the Hon'ble Supreme Court there was  absence of of any price escalation clause in the original agreement  and even there was absence of  specific prohibition to the contrary  in the supplemental agreement. In the instant case, in the original  agreement there is specific price escalation clause and it is stated  that there shall not be any escalation allowed and price will remain  firm.   Even   in   the   subsequent   correspondence   also,   GMDC   never  agreed for price escalation even at the time when period of contract  was extended. Under the circumstances, the decision shall not be  applicable to the facts of the case. 
12. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, we are  of the opinion that learned Commercial Court has materially erred  in   allowing   claim   no.3   which   was   rejected   by   the   learned  Arbitrator,   by   reversing   the   finding   recorded   by   the   learned  Arbitrator,   while   exercising   the   powers   under   Section   34   of   the  Arbitration Act. Under the circumstances, Appeal preferred by the  GMDC being First Appeal No. 618 of 2017 deserves to be allowed  and is accordingly allowed. 
First Appeal No. 778 of 2017
13. Now, so far as First Appeal No. 778 of 2017 preferred by the  SIL   against   the   impugned   judgment   and   order   passed   by   the  learned Commercial Court dismissing the application under Section  34 of the Arbitration Act and confirming the award declared by the  HC-NIC Page 48 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 learned Tribunal rejecting the claim no.4 i.e. claim with respect to  extra costs on account of overstay is concerned, at the outset, it is  required to be noted that as such there are concurrent findings of  fact   recorded   by   the   learned   Arbitrator   as   well   as   learned  Commercial   Court.   Therefore,   the   present   Appeal   which   will   be  under   Section   37   of   the   Arbitration   Act   is   concerned,   the   Court  would   have   very  limited   scope  and  the   jurisdiction.   As   observed  and held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court as well as this Court in  catena   of   decisions,   against   the   order   passed   by   the   learned  Arbitrator even the first Court exercising the power under Section  34 of the Arbitration Act would have very limited scope and the  jurisdiction   and   as   observed   herein   above,   the   Court   while  considering the application under Section 34/37 of the Act is not  sitting   as   an   Appellate   Court   against   the   award   declared   by   the  learned Arbitrator.  The scope and exercise of jurisdiction by this  Court in exercise of powers under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act  by this Court will be   co­terminus with the scope of Section 34 of  the Act and therefore,  unless and until the case is made out for  interference as per law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in  the case  of   Associate   Builders (supra),  this Court   would  not  be  justified in  interfering with the  findings  recorded  by  the  learned  Arbitrator, confirmed by the learned Commercial Court. 
13.1. It is required to be noted that so far as claim no.4 i.e.  with respect to extra costs on account of overstay is concerned, it  was the case on behalf of the SIL that as the SIL had to remain on  the   site   for   the   period   beyond   the   date   of   completion   of   the  contract, on account of which, it had to incur extra costs. The same  HC-NIC Page 49 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 came to be negatived and / or rejected by the learned Arbitrator by  giving specific finding that the SIL has failed to justify the claim by  proving   (1)   that   the   entire   period   of   overstay   was   due   to   the  reasons attributable to the respondent; and (2) the SIL had made  all  possible   efforts  to mitigate the expenses which it might  have  incurred on account of overstay. Even the SIL also failed to prove  by way of producing cogent proof to show that during this entire  period of overstay only on account of this contract work, it had to  incur   further   costs   in   addition   thereto   to   show   that   the   extra  expenses   were   incurred   by   the   claimant   during   the   period   of  overstay.   The   learned   Arbitrator   while   considering   the   aforesaid  claim specifically observed that at the very site where the particular  contract work was carried out, there were three other construction  works which were being carried on by the SIL. Even, SIL failed to  adduce any cogent evidence to prove the payment made towards  maintenance   of   the   site   machinery,   manpower   engaged   and   the  payment   made   by   them.   Therefore,   in   absence   of   any   cogent  evidence on record, the learned Arbitrator rightly rejected the said  claim.   The   aforesaid   has   been   confirmed   by   the   learned  Commercial   Court.   Considering   the   aforesaid   facts   and  circumstances of the case and the findings recorded by the learned  Arbitrator recorded while rejecting the claim no.4 i.e. with respect  to   claim   on   account   of   extra   costs   incurred   due   to   overstay,   it  cannot be said that the same deserve any interference of this Court  in exercise of powers under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act. We  are   in   complete   agreement   with   the   view   taken   by   the   learned  Arbitrator as well as learned Commercial Court. 
HC-NIC Page 50 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017
14.  Now,   so   far   as   submission   made   by   Shri   Kavina,   learned  counsel for the SIL that in fact in the written statement of defence  filed by the GMDC of 30.01.2010 before the learned Arbitrator, the  GMDC admitted the claim in part, in respect to the amount payable  by the GMDC to SIL towards extra costs/ overstay is concerned, at  the   outset,   it   is   required   to   be   noted   that   as   such   no   such  submissions   were   made   either   before   the   learned   Arbitrator   or  before   the   learned   Commercial   Court.   Even   considering,   the  written   statement   of   the   SIL   before   the   Commercial   Court  submitted by the GMDC it does not appear that there was any such  admission. It is required to be noted that in the original written  statement filed by the GMDC, the GMDC had denied the claim of  overstay in toto. In fact, further written statement, which according  to   the   SIL   there   is   an   admission,   it   appears   that   the   same   was  submitted to display the arithmetic and logical inaccuracy in SIL's  calculation and the same cannot be said to be in any way admission  on the part of the GMDC. 
14.1. As   rightly   observed   by   the   learned   Arbitrator   as   well   as  learned   Commercial   Court   merely   because   the   SIL   continued   to  carry   on   the   work   after   a   period   of   22   months,   the   SIL   is   not  entitled to compensation for the overstay. The SIL was required to  prove  that the overstay was due to the delay on the part of the  GMDC and that SIL was required to be adduced cogent evidence  with respect to the actual claim and the expenditure incurred. 
14.2. Now,   so   far   as   reliance   placed   upon   Section   70   of   the  Contract Act is concerned, assuming that Section 70 of the Contract  HC-NIC Page 51 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 Act   may   be   applicable   in   that   case   also,   even   while   claiming  compensation, the SIL was required to prove that entire period of  overstay was due to the reasons attributable to the GMDC, that the  SIL   made   all   possible   efforts   to   mitigate   the   expenses   which   it  might have incurred on account of overstay. Importantly even, SIL  was   required   to   prove   by   producing   cogent   evidence   the   actual  expenses / costs incurred/ made towards maintenance of the site  machinery, manpower engaged and the payment made to them. 
14.3. Considering the aforesaid facts and circumstances and  the reasoning given by the learned Arbitrator as well as learned  Commercial   Court,   we   see   no   reason   to   interfere   with   the  impugned judgment and order passed by the learned Commercial  Court confirming the award declared by the learned Arbitrator with  respect to claim no.4 i.e. with respect to extra costs on account of  overstay. We are in complete agreement with the view taken by the  learned Arbitrator as well as learned Commercial Court. 
14.4. Under the circumstances, the present First Appeal No. 778 of  2017   preferred   by   the   SIL   deserves   to   be   dismissed   and   is  accordingly dismissed. 
15. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, First  Appeal No. 618 of 2017 preferred by the GMDC is hereby allowed  and   the   impugned   judgment   and   order   passed   by   the   learned  Commercial   Court,   Ahmedabad   dated  28.12.2016   in  Commercial  Civil Miscellaneous Application No. 52 of 2016 is hereby quashed  and   set   aside   in   so   far   as   modifying   the   award   declared   by   the  learned   Arbitrator   and   allowing   the   claim   no.3   with   respect   to  HC-NIC Page 52 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017 escalation. 
15.1. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above,  First Appeal No. 778 of 2017 is hereby dismissed and the impugned  judgment   and   order   passed   by   the   learned   Commercial   Court,  Ahmedabad dated 28.12.2016 in  Commercial Civil Miscellaneous  Application   No.   52   of   2016   rejecting   Section  34   application   and  confirming   the   award   declared   by   the   learned   Arbitrator   with  respect to claim no.4 ­  with respect to  extra costs on account of  overstay is hereby confirmed. 
In the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no  order as to costs.       
Sd/­        (M.R. SHAH, J.)  Sd/­          (B.N. KARIA, J.)  Kaushik HC-NIC Page 53 of 53 Created On Sun Aug 13 04:15:17 IST 2017