Take notes as you read a judgment using our Virtual Legal Assistant and get email alerts whenever a new judgment matches your query (Query Alert Service). Try out our Premium Member Services -- Sign up today and get free trial for one month.
Bombay High Court
Uttam Energy Limited Thr. Its . Mr. A. P. ... vs M/S. Shivratna Udyog Limited Thr. Its ... on 27 July, 2022
Author: G.S. Kulkarni
Bench: G.S. Kulkarni
         Digitally signed
       by VIDYA
VIDYA  SURESH AMIN
SURESH Date:
       2022.09.01
AMIN   17:40:04
         +0530




                                                                       1                          7.ARP79_2022.doc

                            Vidya Amin
                                              IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT BOMBAY
                                                      CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION

                                                   ARBITRATION PETITION NO. 79 OF 2022

                                    Uttam Energy Ltd., through Mr. A.P. Rajore                 .. Petitioner
                                                Vs.
                                    M/s. Shivratna Udyog Ltd., through its
                                    Managing Director                                          .. Respondent

                                    Mr. Aman Kacheria a/w. Rahul Agarwal, Jasmin Puranik for the
                                    petitioner.
                                    Mr. Abhijit Kulkarni i/b. Milind Prabhune for the respondent.

                                                             CORAM :       G.S. KULKARNI, J.
                                                             DATE :        JULY 27, 2022.
                                    Oral Judgment:


                                    1.    This is a petition filed under section 11 of the Arbitration and

                                    Conciliation Act, 1996 (for short "ACA") whereby the petitioner has

                                    prayed for appointment of an arbitral tribunal to adjudicate the disputes

                                    and differences between the parties, which have arisen         under       two

                                    Agreements entered by the petitioner with the respondent both dated 30

                                    June, 2012 for Design, Procure, Manufacture, Supply and Supervision of

                                    Erection and Commissioning of one no. 75 TPH MCR Capacity, 72.5 kg/

                                    cm2(g) pressure, 515ºC ± 5ºC steam temperature Multi fuel fired Boiler

                                    with accessories for 12.5 MW      - Generation Project being set up at

                                    Alegaon, Tal. Madha, Dist. Solapur, Maharashtra. There is no dispute in

                                    regard to the arbitration agreement as contained in both the

                                    agreements, which is contained in Clauses 15 and 14 of the respective

                                    agreements.
                                         2                          7.ARP79_2022.doc

2.     As disputes and differences had arisen between the parties, the

petitioner by its advocate's notice dated 3 December, 2020 invoked the

arbitration agreement and called upon the respondent to appoint a sole

arbitrator to adjudicate the disputes which have arisen between the

parties. The name of the nominee arbitrator was also suggested in

paragraph 5 of such notice. As set out in paragraph 4, of such notice the

petitioner invoked arbitration in respect of both the agreements. The

petitioner's   claim    against   the       respondent   is   of   an    amount

Rs.1,33,37,723/-.      As the notice invoking arbitration was not replied,

the present petition was required to be filed by the petitioner.


3.    This petition was initially filed on the Original Side of this Court,

as a Commercial Arbitration Petition, on the assumption that the dispute

between the parties being a commercial dispute the same was required

to be filed on the original side of this Court although no cause of action

to invoke such jurisdiction had arisen within Mumbai. Such petition was

permitted to be transferred to the Appellate Side by an order dated 7

March, 2022 passed by this Court. It is accordingly listed before the

Court on the appellate side.


4.    Learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that there clearly

exists an arbitration agreement as contained in Clauses 15 and 14 as

noted above. He submits that also there is a lawful invocation of such
                                       3                         7.ARP79_2022.doc

arbitration agreement.       It is submitted that the Court in these

circumstances needs to exercise jurisdiction to appoint an arbitral

tribunal for adjudication of the disputes which have arisen between the

parties under the said two agreements. He makes a statement that the

Court fees in both the agreements have been paid on the proceedings.


5.     On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondent has raised an

objection to the maintainability of this petition, before the High Court

referring to the provisions of Section 10 (3) of the Commercial Courts Act,

2015. The submission as made by learned counsel for the respondent is to

the effect that the present proceedings being in the nature of Commercial

Arbitration proceedings, this Court would not have jurisdiction under

section 11(6) of the ACA Act to appoint an arbitrator inasmuch as sub-

section (3) of Section 10 of the Commercial Courts Act, provides that if an

arbitration is other than an international commercial arbitration, all

applications or appeals arising out of such arbitration under the provisions

of ACA would ordinarily lie before any principal civil court of original

jurisdiction in a district (not being a High Court), which shall be filed and

heard and disposed of by the Commercial Court exercising territorial

jurisdiction over such arbitration where such Commercial Court has been

constituted. It is his submission that the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 is a

legislation subsequent to the ACA which was brought into force on the 23 rd

day of October, 2015, as sub-section (3) of Section 1 would provide. It is

hence his submission that the principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction in
                                        4                      7.ARP79_2022.doc

the present proceeding would be the designated Court at Pune or the

Competent Court, either at Akluj, District Solapur or Pune, as agreed

between the parties in the Arbitration Clause. It is on such premise learned

counsel for the respondent has submitted that the petition ought not to be

entertained and be directed to be presented before the designated

Commercial Court/Principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction who would

exercise jurisdiction to appoint an arbitral tribunal.


6.    Learned counsel for the petitioner, in opposing the above contention

as urged on behalf of the respondent, would submit that such contention as

urged on behalf of the respondent would not be the correct position in law.

It is his contention that the jurisdiction to appoint an arbitral tribunal

under section 11 of the ACA would vest exclusively with the High Court. It

is his submission that such powers are not conferred in a manner known to

law with the principal court of civil jurisdiction and hence sub-section (3)

of Section 10 of the Commercial Courts Act cannot be applied to the

proceedings under Section 11 of the ACA being the subject matter of the

present proceeding.


7.    To appreciate the objection as urged on behalf of the respondent, it

would be necessary to consider the purport and the effect of the provisions

of Section 11 as also the provisions of Section 10 of the Commercial Courts

Act, 2015. These provisions reads thus:
                                    5                           7.ARP79_2022.doc

11 Appointment of arbitrators. --

(1) A person of any nationality may be an arbitrator, unless otherwise
agreed by the parties.

(2) Subject to sub-section (6), the parties are free to agree on a
procedure for appointing the arbitrator or arbitrators.

(3) Failing any agreement referred to in sub-section (2), in an
arbitration with three arbitrators, each party shall appoint one
arbitrator, and the two appointed arbitrators shall appoint the third
arbitrator who shall act as the presiding arbitrator.

(4) If the appointment procedure in sub-section (3) applies and--

       (a) a party fails to appoint an arbitrator within thirty days from
       the receipt of a request to do so from the other party; or

       (b) the two appointed arbitrators fail to agree on the third
       arbitrator within thirty days from the date of their appointment,

the appointment shall be made, upon request of a party, by the Chief
Justice or any person or institution designated by the Supreme Court or,
as the case may be, the High Court or any person or institution
designated by such Court.

(5) Failing any agreement referred to in sub-section (2), in an
arbitration with a sole arbitrator, if the parties fail to agree on the
arbitrator within thirty days from receipt of a request by one party from
the other party to so agree, the appointment shall be made, upon
request of a party, by the Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the
High Court or any person or institution designated by such Court.

(6) Where, under an appointment procedure agreed upon by the
parties,--

    (a) a party fails to act as required under that procedure; or

    (b) the parties, or the two appointed arbitrators, fail to reach an
    agreement expected of them under that procedure; or

    (c) a person, including an institution, fails to perform any function
    entrusted to him or it under that procedure,

a party may request the Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High
Court or any person or institution designated by such Court to take the
necessary measure, unless the agreement on the appointment
procedure provides other means for securing the appointment.

(6A) The Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court, while
considering any application under sub-section (4) or sub-section (5) or
sub-section (6), shall, notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order
                                    6                            7.ARP79_2022.doc

of any Court, confine to the examination of the existence of an
arbitration agreement.

(6B) The designation of any person or institution by the Supreme Court
or, as the case may be, the High Court, for the purposes of this section
shall not be regarded as a delegation of judicial power by the Supreme
Court or the High Court.

7) A decision on a matter entrusted by sub-section (4) or sub-section
(5) or sub-section (6) to the Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the
High Court or the person or institution designated by such Court is final
and no appeal including Letters Patent Appeal shall lie against such
decision.

(8) The Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court or the
person or institution designated by such Court, before appointing an
arbitrator, shall seek a disclosure in writing from they prospective
arbitrator in terms of sub-section (1) of section 12, and have due regard
to -
      (a) any qualifications required for the arbitrator by the agreement
      of the parties; and

     b) the contents of the disclosure and other considerations as are
     likely to secure the appointment of an independent and impartial
     arbitrator.

(9) In the case of appointment of sole or third arbitrator in an
international commercial arbitration, the Supreme Court or the person
or institution designated by that Court may appoint an arbitrator of a
nationality other than the nationalities of the parties where the parties
belong to different nationalities.

(10) The Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court, may
make such scheme as the said Court may deem appropriate for dealing
with matters entrusted by sub-section (4) or sub-section 95) or sub-
section (6), to it.

(11)Where more than one request has been made under sub-section (4)
or sub-section (5) or sub-section (6) to different High Courts or their
designates, the High Court or its designate to whom the request has
been first made under the relevant sub-section shall alone be competent
to decide on the request.

(12) (a) Where the matters referred to in sub-sections (4), (5), (6), (7),
(8) and sub-section (10) arise in an international commercial
arbitration, the reference to the "Supreme Court or, as the case may be,
the High Court" in those sub-sections shall be construed as a reference
to the "Supreme Court"; and

       (b) where the matters referred to in sub-sections (4), (5), (6),
(7), (8) and sub-section (10) arise in any other arbitration, the
reference to the "Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court"
                                         7                             7.ARP79_2022.doc

     in those sub-sections shall be construed as a reference to the "High
     Court" within whose local limits the principal Civil Court referred to in
     clause (e) of sub-section (1) of section 2 is situate, and where the High
     Court itself is the Court referred to in that clause, to that High Court.

     (13) An Application made under this Section for appointment of an
     arbitrator or arbitrators shall be disposed of by the Supreme Court or
     the High Court or the person or institution designated by such Court, as
     the case may be, as expeditiously as possible and an endeavour shall be
     made to dispose of the matter within a period of sixty days from the
     date of service of notice on the opposite party.

     (14) For the purpose of determination of the fees of the arbitral
     tribunal and the manner of its payment to the arbitral tribunal, the
     High Court may frame such rules as may be necessary, after taking into
     consideration the rates specified in the Fourth Schedule.

     (Amendment inserted by Act No. 3 of 2016 with retrospective effect from
     23.10.2015)


     Section 10 of Commercial Courts Act: Jurisdiction in respect of
     arbitration matters.
     10. Where the subject-matter of an arbitration is a commercial dispute
     of a Specified Value and-
     (1) If such arbitration is an international commercial arbitration, all
     applications or appeals arising out of such arbitration under the
     provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (26 of 1996)
     that have been filed in a High Court, shall be heard and disposed of by
     the Commercial Division where such Commercial Division has been
     constituted in such High Court.
     (2) If such arbitration is other than an international commercial
     arbitration, all applications or appeals arising out of such arbitration
     under the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (26
     of 1996) that have been filed on the original side of the High Court,
     shall be heard and disposed of by the Commercial Division where such
     Commercial Division has been constituted in such High Court.
     (3) If such arbitration is other than an international commercial
     arbitration, all applications or appeals arising out of such arbitration
     under the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (26
     of 1996) that would ordinarily lie before any principal civil court of
     original jurisdiction in a district (not being a High Court) shall be filed
     in, and heard and disposed of by the Commercial Court exercising
     territorial jurisdiction over such arbitration where such Commercial
     Court has been constituted."
                                                          (emphasis added)

8.   It needs to be observed that the amendment to the Arbitration and

Conciliation Act by Act No. 3 of 2016, incorporating amendments to
                                     8                       7.ARP79_2022.doc

Section 11 and more particularly the insertion of the various sub-

sections (as highlighted in the said provision as extracted above) were

brought into effect from 23 October, 2015. This date has significance

inasmuch as it corresponds to the date on which also the Commercial

Courts Act was brought into force namely from 23 October, 2015. This

would have some relevance in deciding the issue in hand.


9.    On a perusal of Section 11 of the ACA and more particularly the

powers conferred on the High Court read with sub-section (6), it

appears to be quite clear that where under an appointment procedure as

agreed between the parties in a manner as set out in clauses (a) to (c) of

sub-section (6) of Section11 namely when a party fails to act as required

under that procedure; the parties or two arbitrators, fail to reach an

agreement expected of them under that procedure; or a person,

including an institution fails to perform any function entrusted to him or

it under that procedure, it is provided that a party may request the

Supreme Court or as the case may be the High Court or any person or

institution designated by such Court to take the necessary measure,

unless the agreement on the appointment procedure provides other

means for securing the appointment. Sub-section 6-A throws light on the

Supreme Court and the High Court exercising jurisdiction under Section

11(6) to provide that the Supreme Court or the High Court while

considering any application under sub-section (4) or sub-section (5) or
                                     9                        7.ARP79_2022.doc

sub-section (6), shall nothwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of

any Court, confine to the examination of the existence of an arbitration

agreement. Sub-section 6-B of Section 11 is required to be read in the

context of what has been provided in sub-section (6), namely, in the

event apart from the Supreme Court or High Court, if any person or

institution is designated by such Courts to take measures to appoint an

arbitral tribunal, the designation of any person or instiution by the

Supreme Court or High Court, as the case may be, for the purposes of

Section 11 "shall not" be regarded as a delegation of "judicial power" by

the Supreme Court or the High Court.


10.    On the holistic reading of Section 11 of the ACA it is clear that it

is the jurisdiction either of the Supreme Court or the High Court to

appoint arbitrators under section 11 (6) with an exception of the

Supreme Court and the High Court designating any person or institution

to make such appointment and even if such person or institution is so

appointed, it shall not amount to Court conferring any judicial power by

the Supreme Court or the High Court.


11.   It however needs to be seen as to whether the powers of the High

Court as conferred under section 11 of the ACA, in any manner would

stand divested by operation of sub-section (3) of Section 10, which is

also a provision which has been brought into force on the same day an
                                     10                       7.ARP79_2022.doc

amendment to Section 11 ACA as noted above was brought into force,

namely, on 23 October, 2015. Section 10 of the Commercial Courts Act

provides for "Jurisdiction in respect of arbitration matters". It provides

that where the subject-matter of an arbitration is a commercial dispute

of a specified value and as provided for in sub-section (1) if such

arbitration is an international commercial arbitration, all applications or

appeals arising out of such arbitration under the provisions of the

Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 that have been filed in a High

Court, shall be heard and disposed of by the Commercial Division where

such Commercial Division has been constituted in such High Court. Sub-

section (2) of Section 10, provides that if such arbitration is other than

an international commercial arbitration, all applications or appeals

arising out of such arbitration under the provisions of the Arbitration

and Conciliation Act, 1996 that have been filed on the original side of

the High Court, shall be heard and disposed of by the Commercial

Division where such Commercial Division has been constituted in such

High Court. Thus, sub-section (1) and sub-section (2) of Section 10 deal

with matters "which have been filed" and where the subject of

arbitration is a commercial dispute of a specified value. Sub-section (3)

of Section 10 provides that if such arbitration is other than an

international commercial arbitration, "all applications or appeals arising

out of such arbitration", under the provisions of the Arbitration and
                                          11                           7.ARP79_2022.doc

Conciliation Act, 1996 that would ordinarily lie before any principal civil

court of original jurisdiction in a district (not being a High Court) shall

be filed in, and heard and disposed of by the Commercial Court

exercising territorial jurisdiction over such arbitration where such

Commercial Court has been constituted. The use of words "Commercial

Court" in sub-section (3) are to be understood in the context of

definition of "Commercial Court" as contained in Section 2(b), which

defines "Commercial Court" to mean the Commercial Court constituted

under section (1) of Section 3.            Section 6 defines "Jurisdiction of

Commercial Court". Section 3(1) and Section 6 of the Commercial

Courts Act, reads thus:

      "Section 3. Constitution of Commercial Courts:-

      (1) The State Government, may after consultation with the concerned
      High Court, by notification, constitute such number of Commercial
      Courts at District level, as it may deem necessary for the purpose of
      exercising the jurisdiction and powers conferred on those Courts under
      this Act;

            Provided that with respect to the High Courts having ordinary
      original civil jurisdiction, the State Government may, after consultation
      with the concerned High Court, by notification, constitute Commercial
      Courts at the District Judge level;

             Provided further that with respect to a territory over which the
      High Courts have ordinary original civil jurisdiction, the State
      Government may, by notification, specify such pecuniary value which
      shall not be less than three lakh rupees and not more than the
      pecuniary jurisdiction exercisable by the District Courts, as it may
      consider necessary."

      Section 6: Jurisdiction of Commercial Court.
      6. The Commercial Court shall have jurisdiction to try all suits and
      applications relating to a commercial dispute of a Specified Value
      arising out of the entire territory of the State over which it has been
      vested territorial jurisdiction.
                                          12                            7.ARP79_2022.doc

      Explanation.-For the purposes of this section, a commercial dispute
      shall be considered to arise out of the entire territory of the State over
      which a Commercial Court has been vested jurisdiction, if the suit or
      application relating to such commercial dispute has been instituted as
      per the provisions of sections 16 to 20 of the Code of Civil Procedure,
      1908 (5 of 1908)."



12.   On a cumulative reading of the provisions of Sub-section (3) of

Section 10 read with Section 3(1) and Section 6 of the Commercial

Courts Act, it is quite clear that in no manner the jurisdiction of the

High Court under section 11 has been either disturbed or divested in

matters of appointment of an arbitral tribunal as provided for under

section 11 of the ACA. The words "all applications or appeals arising out

of such arbitration" as used in sub-section (3) would certainly not

contemplate an application to be filed under section 11 of the ACA

which is required to be filed before the High Court. Sub-section (3) of

Section 10 confers the jurisdiction of the Commercial Court in

substitution of any principal civil court of original jurisdiction, namely,

being the position prior to the Commercial Courts Act being brought into

force, being such applications or appeals which otherwise would have

lied before the Court, namely, the principal civil court of original

jurisdiction, which would now lie before the Commercial Court, if the

subject matter of arbitration is a commercial dispute of a specified value.

Thus, to read into sub-section (3) of Section 10 of the Commercial

Courts Act to take within its ambit the jurisdiction and power in relation

to the appointment of an arbitral tribunal, to be                 exercised by the
                                    13                           7.ARP79_2022.doc

Commercial    Court   exercising   territorial   jurisdiction     over    such

arbitration, when the exclusive jurisdiction to make appointment of an

arbitral tribunal within the meaning of section 11 of the ACA, is

conferred on the High Court or the Supreme Court as the case may be

under section 11 of the ACA, it would amount to a complete misreading

of sub-section (3) of Section 10 of the Commercial Courts Act, and in

fact would lead to an absurdity. Such an interpretation can never be

accepted in terms of what Section 11 categorically provides qua the

powers of the High Court to appoint an arbitral tribunal.           Thus, the

objection as urged on behalf of the respondent that the present

applicatioin would lie before the Commercial Court at Pune or at Akluj

merely because the Commerical Court has been constituted is totally

untenable.


13.   The next contention as urged on behalf of the respondent is

taking a clue from what has been provided below sub-clause(c) of sub-

section (6) of Section 11 of the ACA, namely that the Commercial Court

needs to be regarded as any person or institution designated by the High

Court to exercise powers under section 11. In my opinion, such an

argument is totally unacceptable inasmuchas the Commercial Court can

never be any person or institution as understood in either sub-section

(6) of Section 11 or sub-section (6-A) of Section 11 of ACA. It becomes

clear from the provisions of sub-section (6-B) of Section 11 which
                                    14                      7.ARP79_2022.doc

categorically provide that any person or institution which may be

designated by the Supreme or High Court, for the purposes of Section 11

shall not be regarded as a delegation of any judicial power by the

Supreme Court or the High Court. It would be absurdity to accept such

argument inasmuch as the Commercial court would be a "Court"

exercising judicial powers as clear from the provisions of Commercial

Courts Act, 2015. Thus, sub-section (6) of Section 11 of the ACA when

uses the word "any person or institution" necessarily it would be a

person or any institution which is not a Court and which would not have

any judicial power and by virtue of such designation under sub-section

(6-B) of Section 11, it shall not be regarded as a delegation of judicial

power by the Supreme Court or the High Court. This objection as urged

on behalf of the respondent also needs to be rejected.


14.   Thus what remains is to examine as to whether a valid arbitration

agreement exists between the parties. The arbitration agreement

between the parties is contained in Clause 15 and 14 respectively of the

agreement(s) in question, which is not in dispute. There is also no

dispute on the invocation of the arbitration agreements. It is a settled

position in law that in exercising jurisdiction under section 11(6) read

with sub-section (6-A), the Court is required to examine the existence of

an arbitration agreement, and when the arbitration agreement subsists

and other requirements as provided for under section 11 being satisfied,
                                     15                       7.ARP79_2022.doc

it will be necessary for this Court to exercise jurisdiction under section

11 (See: Duro Felguera, S.A. vs. Gangavaram Port Ltd., (2017) 9 SCC

729 and M/s. Mayavati Trading Pvt. Ltd. vs. Pradyuat Deb Burman,

(2019) 8 SCC 714). Thus all the requirements for this Court to exercise

jurisdiction under Section 11(6) of the ACA are eminently present as

clearly seen from the facts as noted above.


15.   At this stage, learned counsel for the parties inform that the seat

and venue of the arbitration proceedings shall be at Pune.


16.   In the above circumstances, the petition would be required to be

allowed. It is accordingly allowed by the following order:


                          ORDER
(i) Mr. Anurag M. Jain, Advocate is appointed as a sole arbitrator to adjudicate the disputes between the parties which have arisen under the Agreements in question.
(ii) The learned sole arbitrator, before entering the arbitration reference, shall forward a statement of disclosure as per the requirement of Section 11(8) read with Section 12(1) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act,1996, to the Prothonotary & Senior Master of this Court, to be placed on record of this application with a copy to be forwarded to both the parties;
(iii) All contentions of the parties including the contentions of 16 7.ARP79_2022.doc the respondents on sufficiency of stamp duty on the documents are expressly kept open;
(iv) At the first instance, the parties shall appear before the arbitral tribunal within a period of 15 days from the date the copy of the order is available.
(v) The arbitral tribunal shall make an endeavour to adjudicate the disputes and differences between the parties as expeditiously as possible as provided for under section 29A of the ACA.
(vi) The fees payable to the arbitral tribunal shall be as prescribed under the Bombay High Court (Fees Payable to Arbitrators) Rules,2018 and shall be borne by the parties in equal proportion.
(vii) The petition is disposed of in the above terms. No costs.
(viii) Office to forward a copy of this order to the learned Arbitrator on the following address:
Mr. Anurag M. Jain, Advocate, 501, Varun Capital, CTS No. 364 + 365/13, Next to OYO Citiotel, Lane Oppo. Jangli Maharaj Temple, Shivajinagar, Pune - 411 005. Mob. - 9833759856 Email : ajassociateslaw@gmail.com [G.S. KULKARNI, J.]